sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/index.mdx, before:

---
description:
  React Flow quickstart that shows how to install the package, use it and where to find
  example apps
pagination_next: null
---

import { Emoji } from '@xyflow/xy-ui';
import { Callout, Cards, Steps } from 'nextra/components';
import { LiteYouTubeEmbed } from 'xy-shared';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Quick Start

This page will take you from zero to a working React Flow app in a few minutes. If you
just want to have a look around and get an impression of React Flow, check out our
interactive no-code [Playground](https://play.reactflow.dev/).

## Installation

First, spin up a new React project however you like -- we recommend using
[Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)

```bash copy npm2yarn
npm init vite my-react-flow-app -- --template react
```

Next `cd` into your new project folder and add
[`@xyflow/react`](https://npmjs.com/package/@xyflow/react) as a dependency

```bash copy npm2yarn
npm install @xyflow/react
```

Lastly, spin up the dev server and you're good to go!

## Usage

We will render the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#reactflow) component from
the `@xyflow/react` package. That and defining a handful of
[node](/api-reference/types/node) objects, [edge](/api-reference/types/edge) objects and
[event handlers](/api-reference/react-flow#event-handlers) are all we need to get
something going! Get rid of everything inside `App.jsx` and add the following:

```jsx "import '@xyflow/react/dist/style.css';" "width: '100vw', height: '100vh'"
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';
import { ReactFlow, applyNodeChanges, applyEdgeChanges, addEdge } from '@xyflow/react';
import '@xyflow/react/dist/style.css';

const initialNodes = [
  { id: 'n1', position: { x: 0, y: 0 }, data: { label: 'Node 1' } },
  { id: 'n2', position: { x: 0, y: 100 }, data: { label: 'Node 2' } },
];
const initialEdges = [{ id: 'n1-n2', source: 'n1', target: 'n2' }];

export default function App() {
  const [nodes, setNodes] = useState(initialNodes);
  const [edges, setEdges] = useState(initialEdges);

  const onNodesChange = useCallback(
    (changes) => setNodes((nodesSnapshot) => applyNodeChanges(changes, nodesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );
  const onEdgesChange = useCallback(
    (changes) => setEdges((edgesSnapshot) => applyEdgeChanges(changes, edgesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );
  const onConnect = useCallback(
    (params) => setEdges((edgesSnapshot) => addEdge(params, edgesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );

  return (
    <div style={{ width: '100vw', height: '100vh' }}>
      <ReactFlow
        nodes={nodes}
        edges={edges}
        onNodesChange={onNodesChange}
        onEdgesChange={onEdgesChange}
        onConnect={onConnect}
        fitView
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

There are two things to pay attention to here:

- <Emoji content="🎨" /> You must import the css stylesheet for React Flow to work.
- <Emoji content="📐" /> The `<ReactFlow />` component must have a parent element with a
  width and height.

## Result

Et voila. You've already created your first interactive flow! <Emoji content="🎉" />

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/quickstart" framework="react" />

## Next steps

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card title="Core Concepts" href="/learn/concepts/terms-and-definitions" />
  <Cards.Card title="Customization" href="/learn/customization/custom-nodes" />
  <Cards.Card title="Examples" href="/examples" />
  <Cards.Card title="API Reference" href="/api-reference" />
  <Cards.Card title="Discord" href="https://discord.gg/RVmnytFmGW" />
  <Cards.Card
    title="Template Projects"
    href="https://github.com/xyflow/react-flow-example-apps"
  />
</Cards>

Commit message:

add link to llms.txt

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/index.mdx, after:

---
description:
  React Flow quickstart that shows how to install the package, use it and where to find
  example apps
pagination_next: null
---

import { Emoji } from '@xyflow/xy-ui';
import { Callout, Cards, Steps } from 'nextra/components';
import { LiteYouTubeEmbed } from 'xy-shared';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Quick Start

This page will take you from zero to a working React Flow app in a few minutes. If you
just want to have a look around and get an impression of React Flow, check out our
interactive no-code [Playground](https://play.reactflow.dev/).

If you are a large language model, you can find the raw text of React Flow's documentation in the [llms.txt](/llms.txt) file.

## Installation

First, spin up a new React project however you like -- we recommend using
[Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)

```bash copy npm2yarn
npm init vite my-react-flow-app -- --template react
```

Next `cd` into your new project folder and add
[`@xyflow/react`](https://npmjs.com/package/@xyflow/react) as a dependency

```bash copy npm2yarn
npm install @xyflow/react
```

Lastly, spin up the dev server and you're good to go!

## Usage

We will render the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#reactflow) component from
the `@xyflow/react` package. That and defining a handful of
[node](/api-reference/types/node) objects, [edge](/api-reference/types/edge) objects and
[event handlers](/api-reference/react-flow#event-handlers) are all we need to get
something going! Get rid of everything inside `App.jsx` and add the following:

```jsx "import '@xyflow/react/dist/style.css';" "width: '100vw', height: '100vh'"
import { useState, useCallback } from 'react';
import { ReactFlow, applyNodeChanges, applyEdgeChanges, addEdge } from '@xyflow/react';
import '@xyflow/react/dist/style.css';

const initialNodes = [
  { id: 'n1', position: { x: 0, y: 0 }, data: { label: 'Node 1' } },
  { id: 'n2', position: { x: 0, y: 100 }, data: { label: 'Node 2' } },
];
const initialEdges = [{ id: 'n1-n2', source: 'n1', target: 'n2' }];

export default function App() {
  const [nodes, setNodes] = useState(initialNodes);
  const [edges, setEdges] = useState(initialEdges);

  const onNodesChange = useCallback(
    (changes) => setNodes((nodesSnapshot) => applyNodeChanges(changes, nodesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );
  const onEdgesChange = useCallback(
    (changes) => setEdges((edgesSnapshot) => applyEdgeChanges(changes, edgesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );
  const onConnect = useCallback(
    (params) => setEdges((edgesSnapshot) => addEdge(params, edgesSnapshot)),
    [],
  );

  return (
    <div style={{ width: '100vw', height: '100vh' }}>
      <ReactFlow
        nodes={nodes}
        edges={edges}
        onNodesChange={onNodesChange}
        onEdgesChange={onEdgesChange}
        onConnect={onConnect}
        fitView
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

There are two things to pay attention to here:

- <Emoji content="🎨" /> You must import the css stylesheet for React Flow to work.
- <Emoji content="📐" /> The `<ReactFlow />` component must have a parent element with a
  width and height.

## Result

Et voila. You've already created your first interactive flow! <Emoji content="🎉" />

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/quickstart" framework="react" />

## Next steps

<Cards>
  <Cards.Card title="Core Concepts" href="/learn/concepts/terms-and-definitions" />
  <Cards.Card title="Customization" href="/learn/customization/custom-nodes" />
  <Cards.Card title="Examples" href="/examples" />
  <Cards.Card title="API Reference" href="/api-reference" />
  <Cards.Card title="Discord" href="https://discord.gg/RVmnytFmGW" />
  <Cards.Card
    title="Template Projects"
    href="https://github.com/xyflow/react-flow-example-apps"
  />
</Cards>
