sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/examples/nodes/delete-middle-node.mdx, before:

---
title: Delete Middle Node
---

import { Callout, Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components';
import { ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon } from '@heroicons/react/24/outline';

import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';
import ExampleLayout from '@/layouts/example-with-frontmatter';

<ExampleLayout>
This example shows you how recover deleted edges when you remove a node from the
middle of a chain. In other words, if we have three nodes connected in sequence -
`a->b->c` - and we deleted the middle node `b`, this example shows you how to end
up with the graph `a->c`.

To achieve this, we need to make use of a few bits:

- The [`onNodesDelete`](/api-reference/react-flow#event-onnodesdelete) callback lets
  us know when a node is deleted.
- [`getConnectedEdges`](/api-reference/utils/get-connected-edges) gives us
  all the edges connected to a node, either as source or target.
- [`getIncomers`](/api-reference/utils/get-incomers) and
  [`getOutgoers`](/api-reference/utils/get-outgoers) give us the nodes
  connected to a node as source or target.

This comes together to allow us to take all the nodes connected to the deleted
node, and reconnect them to any nodes the deleted node was connected to.

<ExampleViewer codePath="example-flows/DeleteMiddleNode" />

Although this example is less than 20 lines of code there's quite a lot to digest.
Let's break some of it down:

- Our `onNodesDelete` callback is called with one argument - `deleted` - that is an
  array of every node that was just deleted. If you select an individual node and
  press the delete key, `deleted` will contain just that node, but if you make a
  selection _all_ the nodes in that selection will be in `deleted`.

- We create a new array of edges - `remainingEdges` - that contains all the edges
  in the flow that have nothing to do with the node(s) we just deleted.

- We create another array of edges by _flatMapping_ over the array of `incomers`.
  These are nodes that were connected to the deleted node as a source. For each
  of these nodes, we create a new edge that connects to each node in the array of
  `outgoers`. These are nodes that were connected to the deleted node as a target.

<Callout type="info">
For brevity, we're using object destructuring while at the same time renaming
the variable bound (e.g. `({ id: source }) => ...)` destructures the `id`
property of the object and binds it to a new variable called `source`) but you
don't need to do this
</Callout>

## Quick Reference

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card
    title="getConnectedEdges"
    href="/api-reference/utils/getConnectedEdges"
  />
  <Card title="getIncomers" href="/api-reference/utils/getIncomers" />
  <Card
    title="Array.prototype.flatMap"
    href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/flatMap"
    icon={<ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon />}
  />
  <Card
    title="Destructuring assignment"
    href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment#assigning_to_new_variable_names"
    icon={<ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon />}
  />
</Cards>

</ExampleLayout>

Commit message:

update description text for almost all examples for example overview page

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/examples/nodes/delete-middle-node.mdx, after:

---
title: Delete Middle Node
description: Remove a node without breaking the flow
---

import { Callout, Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components';
import { ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon } from '@heroicons/react/24/outline';

import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';
import ExampleLayout from '@/layouts/example-with-frontmatter';

<ExampleLayout>
This example shows you how to recover deleted edges when you remove a node from the
middle of a chain. In other words, if we have three nodes connected in sequence -
`a->b->c` - and we deleted the middle node `b`, this example shows you how to end
up with the graph `a->c`.

To achieve this, we need to make use of a few bits:

- The [`onNodesDelete`](/api-reference/react-flow#event-onnodesdelete) callback lets
  us know when a node is deleted.
- [`getConnectedEdges`](/api-reference/utils/get-connected-edges) gives us
  all the edges connected to a node, either as source or target.
- [`getIncomers`](/api-reference/utils/get-incomers) and
  [`getOutgoers`](/api-reference/utils/get-outgoers) give us the nodes
  connected to a node as source or target.

All together, this allows us to take all the nodes connected to the deleted
node, and reconnect them to any nodes the deleted node was connected to.

<ExampleViewer codePath="example-flows/DeleteMiddleNode" />

Although this example is less than 20 lines of code there's quite a lot to digest.
Let's break some of it down:

- Our `onNodesDelete` callback is called with one argument - `deleted` - that is an
  array of every node that was just deleted. If you select an individual node and
  press the delete key, `deleted` will contain just that node, but if you make a
  selection _all_ the nodes in that selection will be in `deleted`.

- We create a new array of edges - `remainingEdges` - that contains all the edges
  in the flow that have nothing to do with the node(s) we just deleted.

- We create another array of edges by _flatMapping_ over the array of `incomers`.
  These are nodes that were connected to the deleted node as a source. For each
  of these nodes, we create a new edge that connects to each node in the array of
  `outgoers`. These are nodes that were connected to the deleted node as a target.

<Callout type="info">
For brevity, we're using object destructuring while at the same time renaming
the variable bound (e.g. `({ id: source }) => ...)` destructures the `id`
property of the object and binds it to a new variable called `source`) but you
don't need to do this
</Callout>

## Quick Reference

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card
    title="getConnectedEdges"
    href="/api-reference/utils/getConnectedEdges"
  />
  <Card title="getIncomers" href="/api-reference/utils/getIncomers" />
  <Card
    title="Array.prototype.flatMap"
    href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/flatMap"
    icon={<ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon />}
  />
  <Card
    title="Destructuring assignment"
    href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment#assigning_to_new_variable_names"
    icon={<ArrowTopRightOnSquareIcon />}
  />
</Cards>

</ExampleLayout>
