sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/learn/customization/theming.mdx, before:

---
title: Theming
description: React Flow comes with a minimal default theme. It's common to overwrite the default styles with your own CSS or use third-party libraries like TailwindCSS or Styled Components.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';

# Theming

React Flow has been built with deep customization in mind. Many of our users
fully transform the look and feel of React Flow to match their own brand or design
system. This guide will introduce you to the different ways you can customize
React Flow's appearance.

## Default styles

React Flow's default styles are enough to get going with the built-in nodes. They
provide some sensible defaults for styles like padding, border radius, and animated
edges. You can see what they look like below:

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="example-flows/DefaultStyle"
  showEditor={false}
  options={{ wrapContent: true }}
/>

You'll typically load these default styles by importing them in you `App.jsx`
file or other entry point:

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
```

Without dipping into [custom nodes](/examples/nodes/custom-node) and
[edges](/examples/edges/custom-edges), there are three ways you can style
React Flow's basic look:

- Passing inline styles through `style` props
- Overriding the built-in classes with custom CSS
- Overriding the CSS variables React Flow uses

### Customizing with `style` props

The easiest way to start customising the look and feel of your flows is to use
the `style` prop found on many of React Flow's components to inline your own
CSS.

```jsx
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow'

const styles = {
  background: 'red',
  width: '100%',
  height: 300,
};

export default function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow style={styles} nodes={[...]} edges={[...]} />
}
```

### Overriding built-in classes

Some consider heavy use of inline styles to be an anti-pattern. In that case,
you can override the built-in classes that React Flow uses with your own CSS.
There are many classes attached to all sorts of elements in React Flow, but the
ones you'll likely want to override are listed below:

| Class name                         | Description                                                                              |
| :--------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.react-flow`                      | The outermost container                                                                  |
| `.react-flow__renderer`            | The inner container                                                                      |
| `.react-flow__zoompane`            | Zoom & pan pane                                                                          |
| `.react-flow__selectionpane`       | Selection pane                                                                           |
| `.react-flow__selection`           | User selection                                                                           |
| `.react-flow__edges`               | The element containing all edges in the flow                                             |
| `.react-flow__edge`                | Applied to each [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) in the flow                          |
| `.react-flow__edge.selected`       | Added to an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) when selected                            |
| `.react-flow__edge.animated`       | Added to an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) when its `animated` prop is `true`       |
| `.react-flow__edge-path`           | The SVG `<path />` element of an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge)                     |
| `.react-flow__edge-text`           | The SVG `<text />` element of an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) label               |
| `.react-flow__edge-textbg`         | The SVG `<text />` element behind an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) label           |
| `.react-flow__connection`          | Applied to the current connection line                                                   |
| `.react-flow__connection-path`     | The SVG `<path />` of a connection line                                                  |
| `.react-flow__nodes`               | The element containing all nodes in the flow                                             |
| `.react-flow__node`                | Applied to each [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) in the flow                          |
| `.react-flow__node.selected`       | Added to a [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) when selected.                            |
| `.react-flow__node-default`        | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"default"`                       |
| `.react-flow__node-input`          | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"input"`                         |
| `.react-flow__node-output`         | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"output"`                        |
| `.react-flow__nodesselection`      | Nodes selection                                                                          |
| `.react-flow__nodesselection-rect` | Nodes selection rect                                                                     |
| `.react-flow__handle`              | Applied to each [`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component               |
| `.react-flow__handle-top`          | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"top"`    |
| `.react-flow__handle-right`        | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"right"`  |
| `.react-flow__handle-bottom`       | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"bottom"` |
| `.react-flow__handle-left`         | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"left"`   |
| `.react-flow__handle-connecting`   | Applied when a connection line is above a handle.                                        |
| `.react-flow__handle-valid`        | Applied when a connection line is above a handle **and** the connection is valid         |
| `.react-flow__background`          | Applied to the [`<Background />`](/api-reference/components/background) component        |
| `.react-flow__minimap`             | Applied to the [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) component              |
| `.react-flow__controls`            | Applied to the [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls) component            |

<Callout type="warning">
  Be careful if you go poking around the source code looking for other classes
  to override. Some classes are used internally and are required in order for
  the library to be functional. If you replace them you may end up with
  unexpected bugs or errors!
</Callout>

## Third-party solutions

You can choose to opt-out of React Flow's default styling altogether and use a
third-party styling solution instead. If you want to do this, you must make sure
you still import the base styles.

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/base.css';
```

<Callout type="warning">
  These base styles are **required** for React Flow to function correctly. If
  you don't import them or you override them with your own styles, some things
  might not work as expected!
</Callout>

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="example-flows/BaseStyle"
  showEditor={false}
  options={{ editorHeight: 500, editorWidthPercentage: 45, wrapContent: true }}
/>

### Styled Components

Many of the components you render directly, such as the
[`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap), accept both `className` and
`style` props. This means you can use any styling solution you like, such as
[Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/):

```jsx
import { MiniMap } from 'reactflow';

const StyledMiniMap = styled(MiniMap)`
  background-color: ${(props) => props.theme.bg};

  .react-flow__minimap-mask {
    fill: ${(props) => props.theme.minimapMaskBg};
  }

  .react-flow__minimap-node {
    fill: ${(props) => props.theme.nodeBg};
    stroke: none;
  }
`;
```

For a complete example of using Styled Components with React Flow, check out
[the example](/examples/styling/styled-components)!

### TailwindCSS

Custom nodes and edges are just React components, and you can use any styling
solution you'd like to style them. For example, you might want to use
[Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) to style your nodes:

```jsx
function CustomNode({ data }) {
  return (
    <div className="px-4 py-2 shadow-md rounded-md bg-white border-2 border-stone-400">
      <div className="flex">
        <div className="rounded-full w-12 h-12 flex justify-center items-center bg-gray-100">
          {data.emoji}
        </div>
        <div className="ml-2">
          <div className="text-lg font-bold">{data.name}</div>
          <div className="text-gray-500">{data.job}</div>
        </div>
      </div>

      <Handle
        type="target"
        position={Position.Top}
        className="w-16 !bg-teal-500"
      />
      <Handle
        type="source"
        position={Position.Bottom}
        className="w-16 !bg-teal-500"
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you want to overwrite default styles, make sure to import Tailwinds entry
  point after React Flows base styles.
</Callout>

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
import 'tailwind.css';
```

For a complete example of using Tailwind with React Flow, check out
[the example](/examples/styling/tailwind)!

Commit message:

chore(react/theming): add edge updating class

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/learn/customization/theming.mdx, after:

---
title: Theming
description: React Flow comes with a minimal default theme. It's common to overwrite the default styles with your own CSS or use third-party libraries like TailwindCSS or Styled Components.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';

# Theming

React Flow has been built with deep customization in mind. Many of our users
fully transform the look and feel of React Flow to match their own brand or design
system. This guide will introduce you to the different ways you can customize
React Flow's appearance.

## Default styles

React Flow's default styles are enough to get going with the built-in nodes. They
provide some sensible defaults for styles like padding, border radius, and animated
edges. You can see what they look like below:

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="example-flows/DefaultStyle"
  showEditor={false}
  options={{ wrapContent: true }}
/>

You'll typically load these default styles by importing them in you `App.jsx`
file or other entry point:

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
```

Without dipping into [custom nodes](/examples/nodes/custom-node) and
[edges](/examples/edges/custom-edges), there are three ways you can style
React Flow's basic look:

- Passing inline styles through `style` props
- Overriding the built-in classes with custom CSS
- Overriding the CSS variables React Flow uses

### Customizing with `style` props

The easiest way to start customising the look and feel of your flows is to use
the `style` prop found on many of React Flow's components to inline your own
CSS.

```jsx
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow'

const styles = {
  background: 'red',
  width: '100%',
  height: 300,
};

export default function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow style={styles} nodes={[...]} edges={[...]} />
}
```

### Overriding built-in classes

Some consider heavy use of inline styles to be an anti-pattern. In that case,
you can override the built-in classes that React Flow uses with your own CSS.
There are many classes attached to all sorts of elements in React Flow, but the
ones you'll likely want to override are listed below:

| Class name                         | Description                                                                              |
| :--------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.react-flow`                      | The outermost container                                                                  |
| `.react-flow__renderer`            | The inner container                                                                      |
| `.react-flow__zoompane`            | Zoom & pan pane                                                                          |
| `.react-flow__selectionpane`       | Selection pane                                                                           |
| `.react-flow__selection`           | User selection                                                                           |
| `.react-flow__edges`               | The element containing all edges in the flow                                             |
| `.react-flow__edge`                | Applied to each [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) in the flow                          |
| `.react-flow__edge.selected`       | Added to an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) when selected                            |
| `.react-flow__edge.animated`       | Added to an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) when its `animated` prop is `true`       |
| `.react-flow__edge.updating`       | Added to an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) while it gets updated via `onEdgeUpdate` |
| `.react-flow__edge-path`           | The SVG `<path />` element of an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge)                     |
| `.react-flow__edge-text`           | The SVG `<text />` element of an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) label               |
| `.react-flow__edge-textbg`         | The SVG `<text />` element behind an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) label           |
| `.react-flow__connection`          | Applied to the current connection line                                                   |
| `.react-flow__connection-path`     | The SVG `<path />` of a connection line                                                  |
| `.react-flow__nodes`               | The element containing all nodes in the flow                                             |
| `.react-flow__node`                | Applied to each [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) in the flow                          |
| `.react-flow__node.selected`       | Added to a [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) when selected.                            |
| `.react-flow__node-default`        | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"default"`                       |
| `.react-flow__node-input`          | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"input"`                         |
| `.react-flow__node-output`         | Added when [`Node`](/api-reference/types/node) type is `"output"`                        |
| `.react-flow__nodesselection`      | Nodes selection                                                                          |
| `.react-flow__nodesselection-rect` | Nodes selection rect                                                                     |
| `.react-flow__handle`              | Applied to each [`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component               |
| `.react-flow__handle-top`          | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"top"`    |
| `.react-flow__handle-right`        | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"right"`  |
| `.react-flow__handle-bottom`       | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"bottom"` |
| `.react-flow__handle-left`         | Applied when a handle's [`Position`](/api-reference/types/position) is set to `"left"`   |
| `.react-flow__handle-connecting`   | Applied when a connection line is above a handle.                                        |
| `.react-flow__handle-valid`        | Applied when a connection line is above a handle **and** the connection is valid         |
| `.react-flow__background`          | Applied to the [`<Background />`](/api-reference/components/background) component        |
| `.react-flow__minimap`             | Applied to the [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) component              |
| `.react-flow__controls`            | Applied to the [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls) component            |

<Callout type="warning">
  Be careful if you go poking around the source code looking for other classes
  to override. Some classes are used internally and are required in order for
  the library to be functional. If you replace them you may end up with
  unexpected bugs or errors!
</Callout>

## Third-party solutions

You can choose to opt-out of React Flow's default styling altogether and use a
third-party styling solution instead. If you want to do this, you must make sure
you still import the base styles.

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/base.css';
```

<Callout type="warning">
  These base styles are **required** for React Flow to function correctly. If
  you don't import them or you override them with your own styles, some things
  might not work as expected!
</Callout>

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="example-flows/BaseStyle"
  showEditor={false}
  options={{ editorHeight: 500, editorWidthPercentage: 45, wrapContent: true }}
/>

### Styled Components

Many of the components you render directly, such as the
[`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap), accept both `className` and
`style` props. This means you can use any styling solution you like, such as
[Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/):

```jsx
import { MiniMap } from 'reactflow';

const StyledMiniMap = styled(MiniMap)`
  background-color: ${(props) => props.theme.bg};

  .react-flow__minimap-mask {
    fill: ${(props) => props.theme.minimapMaskBg};
  }

  .react-flow__minimap-node {
    fill: ${(props) => props.theme.nodeBg};
    stroke: none;
  }
`;
```

For a complete example of using Styled Components with React Flow, check out
[the example](/examples/styling/styled-components)!

### TailwindCSS

Custom nodes and edges are just React components, and you can use any styling
solution you'd like to style them. For example, you might want to use
[Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com/) to style your nodes:

```jsx
function CustomNode({ data }) {
  return (
    <div className="px-4 py-2 shadow-md rounded-md bg-white border-2 border-stone-400">
      <div className="flex">
        <div className="rounded-full w-12 h-12 flex justify-center items-center bg-gray-100">
          {data.emoji}
        </div>
        <div className="ml-2">
          <div className="text-lg font-bold">{data.name}</div>
          <div className="text-gray-500">{data.job}</div>
        </div>
      </div>

      <Handle
        type="target"
        position={Position.Top}
        className="w-16 !bg-teal-500"
      />
      <Handle
        type="source"
        position={Position.Bottom}
        className="w-16 !bg-teal-500"
      />
    </div>
  );
}
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If you want to overwrite default styles, make sure to import Tailwinds entry
  point after React Flows base styles.
</Callout>

```js
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
import 'tailwind.css';
```

For a complete example of using Tailwind with React Flow, check out
[the example](/examples/styling/tailwind)!
