sites/docs/src/pages/case-studies/doubleloop-case-study.mdx, before:

---
title: How React Flow is the core of DoubleLoop’s user experience
description: React Flow is the majority of our core user experience. Our users interact with all the of the domain objects in our system via the React Flow pages. We have been leveling up our overall set of to feel as natural as FigJam and Miro.
interviewee: Sumit Gupta, CTO / Co-Founder
client: DoubleLoop
image: "/img/case-studies/doubleloop.png"
image_width: 1080
image_height: 495
---

import CaseStudyLayout from "@/layouts/case-study";

<CaseStudyLayout>
#### 1. Can you tell us about you and your company in a sentence or two?

We enable organizations to understand how the work they are doing maps to the key outcomes they want to achieve.

#### 2. What problem or decision were you facing that made you decide to use our library?

Developer ergonomics- flexibility in that the library is really solving the core of flow-charting and not something more bespoke to their original domain problem. Vibrancy of the project development seen through frequency of changes, community, bugs / PRs, etc.

#### 3. How are you currently using React Flow?

It’s the majority of our core user experience. Our users interact with all the of the domain objects in our system via the reactflow pages (we call them Maps). We have been leveling up our overall set of interactions to _feel_ as natural as FigJam and Miro.

#### 4. Can you give an example of something about React Flow that you have found especially useful?

It’s the overall ergonomics that feel really nice. The library is opinionated on things that I want a flowchart library opinionated on like the overall domain modeling of a flow chart library but completely un-opinionated on all the things that should be like what exactly is rendered as a Node.

#### 5. Have you experienced any issues or challenges while using the library? If so, how were they resolved?

Mostly around things that I attribute to the youth of the project. Overall its been developing in a great direction that we largely assess by how much custom code we get to delete when a new release is out because it’s being handled by new internal APIs.

#### 6. You’re a subscriber to the React Flow Starter plan, have any of the features helped you so far? If so, how? (Pro Examples, Prioritized Bug Reports / Feature Requests)?

100% Pro examples. Those and the Discord chat have been all we’ve really leveraged to date.

</CaseStudyLayout>

Commit message:

Case Studies page layout (#57)
* add logos and profile images of authors, mild text edits

* using author component to display interviewee

* added a bug where xy-ui Text component is unsable in case study markdown

* add author component to case-study project preview

* make onesignal screenshot higher quality

* chore(text): minor copy edits

* add breadcrumb to case study pages. some minor copy edits

* fix spacing in case study header

* remove unncessary font size definiton

* implement container component for pretty image outlines. needs more work.

* improve container component for small and large images

* minor spacing changes on case studies overview page

sites/docs/src/pages/case-studies/doubleloop-case-study.mdx, after:

---
title: Tracking business goals with React Flow-powered maps
description: React Flow is the majority of our core user experience. Our users interact with all the of the domain objects in our system via the React Flow pages. We have been leveling up our overall set of to feel as natural as FigJam and Miro.
authors: ['sumit']
client: DoubleLoop
clientLogo: '/img/case-studies/doubleloop-logo.png'
image: '/img/case-studies/doubleloop-screenshot.png'
image_width: 1080
image_height: 495
---

import CaseStudyLayout from '@/layouts/case-study';
import Text from 'xy-ui';

<CaseStudyLayout>

#### Can you describe Doubleloop in a sentence?

We enable organizations to understand how the work they are doing maps to the
key outcomes they want to achieve.

#### What problem or decision were you facing that made you decide to use React Flow?

Developer ergonomics- flexibility in that the library is really solving the core of flow-charting and not something more bespoke to their original domain problem. Vibrancy of the project development seen through frequency of changes, community, bugs / PRs, etc.

#### How are you currently using React Flow?

It’s the majority of our core user experience. Our users interact with all the of the domain objects in our system via the reactflow pages (we call them Maps). We have been leveling up our overall set of interactions to _feel_ as natural as FigJam and Miro.

#### Can you give an example of something about React Flow that you have found especially useful?

It’s the overall ergonomics that feel really nice. The library is opinionated on things that I want a flowchart library opinionated on like the overall domain modeling of a flow chart library but completely un-opinionated on all the things that should be like what exactly is rendered as a Node.

#### Have you experienced any issues or challenges while using the library? If so, how were they resolved?

Mostly around things that I attribute to the youth of the project. Overall its been developing in a great direction that we largely assess by how much custom code we get to delete when a new release is out because it’s being handled by new internal APIs.

#### How have the features of your React Flow subscription helped you so far?

100% Pro examples. Those and the Discord chat have been all we’ve really leveraged to date.

</CaseStudyLayout>
