sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/learn/troubleshooting/migrate-to-v1.mdx, before:

---
title: Migrate to v1
description: A comprehensive guide to migrating from Svelte Flow v0 to v1. Learn about state management changes, component binding updates, hook modifications, and new features for a smooth transition to the latest version.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';

# Migrate to Svelte Flow 1.0

## Migration Guide

### `nodes` & `edges` are now using `$state.raw` instead of `writable`

Svelte 5 introduces runes which are now getting used for nodes and edges.

**Old API**

```js
const nodes = writable([...]);
const edges = writable([...]);
```

**New API**

```js
let nodes = $state.raw([...]);
let edges = $state.raw([...]);
```

### Updating Nodes & Edges

Previously it was possible to update single node properties. Theoretically, this would also be possible with `$state`, however the [performance implications](https://svelte.dev/playground/e6f804ba6da348bc8b6a0a13c59672cb?version=5.19.0) of this are unfortunately too great, so we opted to using `$state.raw`.

This means that `nodes` and `edges` are to be treated as immutable from now on. If you are making updates manually make sure you:

1. create a new node/edge object, when updating a property.
2. reassign the nodes/edges array (this was technically required before anyway)

```js
nodes[0].position.x = 100; // won't work

const newNode = { ...nodes[0] };
newNode.position.x = 100;
nodes[0] = newNode; // not enough to trigger an update
nodes = [...nodes]; // this will make it work

nodes = nodes.map((node) => {
  if (node.id === '1') {
    return { ...node, position: { ...node.position, x: 100 } };
  }
  return node;
}); // also works

updateNode('1', (node) => ({
  ...node,
  position: { ...node.position, x: 100 },
})); // using the updateNode helper from useSvelteFlow
```

### `nodes` & `edges` need to be bound from `<SvelteFlow />`

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges} />
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow bind:nodes bind:edges />
```

If `nodes` and `edges` live in a separate module, you can use [function bindings](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/bind#Function-bindings).

```js
// store.svelte.js

let nodes = $state.raw([...]);
let edges = $state.raw([...]);

export const getNodes = () => nodes;
export const getEdges = () => edges;
export const setNodes = (newNodes) => nodes = newNodes;
export const setEdges = (newEdges) => edges = newEdges;
```

```js
// BaseComponent.svelte

<script>
  import { getNodes, getEdges, setNodes, setEdges } from 'store.svelte.js';
</script>

<SvelteFlow bind:nodes={getNodes, setNodes} bind:edges={getEdges, setEdges} />
```

### Custom Node & Edge Props

This is by enlarge a general change in Svelte 5 but it does have quite a big impact on typing the props of Custom Nodes & Edges.

**Old API**

```js
// CustomNode.svelte

type $$Props = NodeProps;

export let data: $$Props['data'];
export let position: $$Props['position'];
export let selected: $$Props['selected'];
```

**New API**

```js
let { data, position, selected } : NodeProps = $props();
```

### Hooks

Hooks now return reactive values instead of writables. Because `$state` values cannot be [returned by functions directly](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/$state#Passing-state-into-functions) we have to return an object with a `.current` property to keep reactivity. In this regard, we are [following the official trend](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/svelte-reactivity#MediaQuery) set by the Svelte library authors.

**Old API**

```js
const edges = useEdges();
$: console.log(edges);
```

**New API**

```js
const edges = useEdges();
$inspect(edges.current);
```

Note that in case of `useNodes`, `useEdges` and `useViewport` reassignments to `.current` work!

```js
const nodes = useNodes();

function updateNodes() {
   nodes.current = [...]
}
```

### useSvelteFlow

`useSvelteFlow` provides access functions that operate on the internal state. When using the hook inside descendants of the `<SvelteFlow />` component (probably custom nodes/edges), apart from changes to some of the functions it exports there is nothing you have to change.

```js
// CustomNode.svelte

const { updateNode, screenToFlowPosition } = useSvelteFlow(); //still works
```

<Callout>
  You have to use `$derived(useSvelteFlow());` if you are using the hook outside of the
  main `<SvelteFlow />` component via the `<SvelteFlowProvider />
  `.
</Callout>

**Old API**

```js
// Sidebar.svelte

const { addNode, deleteNodes, fitView } = useSvelteFlow();
```

**New API**

```js
// Sidebar.svelte

let { addNode, deleteNodes, fitView } = $derived(useSvelteFlow());
```

### Binding the viewport

Binding the viewport now works natively in Svelte 5. You can either access the internal viewport or bind your very own viewport object to be used instead.

**Old API**

```js
const viewport = writable<Viewport>({ x: 100, y: 100, zoom: 1.25 });

<SvelteFlow {viewport} />
```

**New API**

```js
let viewport = $state < Viewport > { x: 100, y: 100, zoom: 1.25 };

<SvelteFlow bind:viewport />;
```

### Custom Connection Line

Using a custom Connection Line was possible before by passing it to a [slot](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/legacy-slots). In Svelte Flow 1.0 we introduced a new prop called `connectionLineComponent`for this.

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges}>
  <ConnectionLine slot="connectionLine" />
  <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines} />
</SvelteFlow>
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges} connectionLineComponent={ConnectionLine}>
  <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines} />
</SvelteFlow>
```

### `onEdgeCreate` becomes `onbeforeconnect`

`onedgecreate` was called before a new edge was created. This is now called `onbeforeconnect` to better align with events like [`onbeforeconnect`](/api-reference/svelte-flow#onbeforedelete).

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow
  {nodes}
  {edges}
  onEdgeCreate={(connection) => ({...connection, id: crypto.randomUUID()})}
/>
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow
  bind:nodes
  bind:edges
  onbeforeconnect={(connection) => ({ ...connection, id: crypto.randomUUID() })}
/>
```

### `<EdgeLabelRenderer/>` becomes [`<EdgeLabel />`](/api-reference/components/edge-label)

The `EdgeLabelRenderer` component is now called `EdgeLabel`. As it was just a simple Portal to begin with, the naming of it being a "renderer" was a bit misleading.
To add to this, the new `EdgeLabel` component now also handles clicks on the label automatically and is aware of what edge it belongs to.

**Old API**

```js filename="CustomEdge.svelte"
<BaseEdge id={id} path={path} />
<EdgeLabelRenderer>
  <div
    style:transform={`translate(${labelX}px, ${labelY}px)`}
  >
    My Edge Label
  </div>
</EdgeLabelRenderer>
```

**New API**

```js filename="CustomEdge.svelte"
<BaseEdge path={path} />
<EdgeLabel x={labelX} y={labelY} selectEdgeOnClick>
  <div>My Edge Label</div>
</EdgeLabel>
```

Commit message:

chore(svelte): update migration guide

sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/learn/troubleshooting/migrate-to-v1.mdx, after:

---
title: Migrate to v1
description: A comprehensive guide to migrating from Svelte Flow v0 to v1. Learn about state management changes, component binding updates, hook modifications, and new features for a smooth transition to the latest version.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';

# Migrate to Svelte Flow 1.0

Svelte Flow 1.0 is based on Svelte 5 and introduces a lot of new features and improvements. However, this also means that some things have changed in the API. This guide will help you migrate from Svelte Flow 0.x to 1.0.

## New features

- **[Reconnect edges](/examples/edges/reconnect-edge)**: You can reconnect your edges by using the new `<EdgeReconnectAnchor />` component. It can be used to add custom reconnection points on custom edges.
- **Keyboard navigation & A11y**: We added support for keyboard navigation and improved accessibility for screen readers. You can now navigate through nodes and edges using the arrow keys.
- **Click connect**: You can now create a new connection by clicking on a handle one by one.
- **[Enhanced ViewportPortal](/api-reference/components/viewport-portal)**: We added a new `<ViewportPortal />` component that allows you to render content in the viewport of the flow. This is useful for rendering custom overlays or tooltips.
- **Improved [fitView](/api-reference/hooks/use-svelte-flow#fitview)**: We finetuned the `fitView` function to better work with dynamically added nodes.
- **colorModeSSR** prop: You can pass a fallback color mode for server side rendering when colorMode is set to 'system'.
- **elevateNodesOnSelect** prop: Control if nodes should be elevated via z-index when selected.

## Breaking changes

### `nodes` & `edges` are now using `$state.raw` instead of `writable`

Svelte 5 introduces runes which are now getting used for nodes and edges.

**Old API**

```js
const nodes = writable([...]);
const edges = writable([...]);
```

**New API**

```js
let nodes = $state.raw([...]);
let edges = $state.raw([...]);
```

### Updating Nodes & Edges

Previously it was possible to update single node properties. Theoretically, this would also be possible with `$state`, however the [performance implications](https://svelte.dev/playground/e6f804ba6da348bc8b6a0a13c59672cb?version=5.19.0) of this are unfortunately too great, so we opted to using `$state.raw`.

This means that `nodes` and `edges` are to be treated as immutable from now on. If you are making updates manually make sure you:

1. create a new node/edge object, when updating a property.
2. reassign the nodes/edges array (this was technically required before anyway)

```js
nodes[0].position.x = 100; // won't work

const newNode = { ...nodes[0] };
newNode.position.x = 100;
nodes[0] = newNode; // not enough to trigger an update
nodes = [...nodes]; // this will make it work

nodes = nodes.map((node) => {
  if (node.id === '1') {
    return { ...node, position: { ...node.position, x: 100 } };
  }
  return node;
}); // also works

updateNode('1', (node) => ({
  ...node,
  position: { ...node.position, x: 100 },
})); // using the updateNode helper from useSvelteFlow
```

### `nodes` & `edges` need to be bound from `<SvelteFlow />`

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges} />
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow bind:nodes bind:edges />
```

If `nodes` and `edges` live in a separate module, you can use [function bindings](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/bind#Function-bindings).

```js
// store.svelte.js

let nodes = $state.raw([...]);
let edges = $state.raw([...]);

export const getNodes = () => nodes;
export const getEdges = () => edges;
export const setNodes = (newNodes) => nodes = newNodes;
export const setEdges = (newEdges) => edges = newEdges;
```

```js
// BaseComponent.svelte

<script>
  import { getNodes, getEdges, setNodes, setEdges } from 'store.svelte.js';
</script>

<SvelteFlow bind:nodes={getNodes, setNodes} bind:edges={getEdges, setEdges} />
```

### Custom Node & Edge Props

This is by enlarge a general change in Svelte 5 but it does have quite a big impact on typing the props of Custom Nodes & Edges.

**Old API**

```js
// CustomNode.svelte

type $$Props = NodeProps;

export let data: $$Props['data'];
export let position: $$Props['position'];
export let selected: $$Props['selected'];
```

**New API**

```js
let { data, position, selected } : NodeProps = $props();
```

### Hooks

Hooks now return reactive values instead of writables. Because `$state` values cannot be [returned by functions directly](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/$state#Passing-state-into-functions) we have to return an object with a `.current` property to keep reactivity. In this regard, we are [following the official trend](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/svelte-reactivity#MediaQuery) set by the Svelte library authors.

**Old API**

```js
const edges = useEdges();
$: console.log(edges);
```

**New API**

```js
const edges = useEdges();
$inspect(edges.current);
```

Note that in case of `useNodes`, `useEdges` and `useViewport` reassignments to `.current` work!

```js
const nodes = useNodes();

function updateNodes() {
   nodes.current = [...]
}
```

### useSvelteFlow

`useSvelteFlow` provides access functions that operate on the internal state. When using the hook inside descendants of the `<SvelteFlow />` component (probably custom nodes/edges), apart from changes to some of the functions it exports there is nothing you have to change.

```js
// CustomNode.svelte

const { updateNode, screenToFlowPosition } = useSvelteFlow(); //still works
```

<Callout>
  You have to use `$derived(useSvelteFlow());` if you are using the hook outside of the
  main `<SvelteFlow />` component via the `<SvelteFlowProvider />
  `.
</Callout>

**Old API**

```js
// Sidebar.svelte

const { addNode, deleteNodes, fitView } = useSvelteFlow();
```

**New API**

```js
// Sidebar.svelte

let { addNode, deleteNodes, fitView } = $derived(useSvelteFlow());
```

### Binding the viewport

Binding the viewport now works natively in Svelte 5. You can either access the internal viewport or bind your very own viewport object to be used instead.

**Old API**

```js
const viewport = writable<Viewport>({ x: 100, y: 100, zoom: 1.25 });

<SvelteFlow {viewport} />
```

**New API**

```js
let viewport = $state < Viewport > { x: 100, y: 100, zoom: 1.25 };

<SvelteFlow bind:viewport />;
```

### Custom Connection Line

Using a custom Connection Line was possible before by passing it to a [slot](https://svelte.dev/docs/svelte/legacy-slots). In Svelte Flow 1.0 we introduced a new prop called `connectionLineComponent`for this.

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges}>
  <ConnectionLine slot="connectionLine" />
  <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines} />
</SvelteFlow>
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow {nodes} {edges} connectionLineComponent={ConnectionLine}>
  <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines} />
</SvelteFlow>
```

### `onEdgeCreate` becomes `onbeforeconnect`

`onedgecreate` was called before a new edge was created. This is now called `onbeforeconnect` to better align with events like [`onbeforeconnect`](/api-reference/svelte-flow#onbeforedelete).

**Old API**

```js
<SvelteFlow
  {nodes}
  {edges}
  onEdgeCreate={(connection) => ({...connection, id: crypto.randomUUID()})}
/>
```

**New API**

```js
<SvelteFlow
  bind:nodes
  bind:edges
  onbeforeconnect={(connection) => ({ ...connection, id: crypto.randomUUID() })}
/>
```

### `<EdgeLabelRenderer/>` becomes [`<EdgeLabel />`](/api-reference/components/edge-label)

The `EdgeLabelRenderer` component is now called `EdgeLabel`. As it was just a simple Portal to begin with, the naming of it being a "renderer" was a bit misleading.
To add to this, the new `EdgeLabel` component now also handles clicks on the label automatically and is aware of what edge it belongs to.

**Old API**

```js filename="CustomEdge.svelte"
<BaseEdge id={id} path={path} />
<EdgeLabelRenderer>
  <div
    style:transform={`translate(${labelX}px, ${labelY}px)`}
  >
    My Edge Label
  </div>
</EdgeLabelRenderer>
```

**New API**

```js filename="CustomEdge.svelte"
<BaseEdge path={path} />
<EdgeLabel x={labelX} y={labelY} selectEdgeOnClick>
  <div>My Edge Label</div>
</EdgeLabel>
```
