sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/learn/getting-started/key-concepts.mdx, before:

import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Key Concepts

Take a couple of nodes and draw an edge between them: You got yourself a flowgraph. This might seem like a very brief definition, but it is the essence of what Svelte Flow solves:

- An interactive, infinite canvas
- Render nodes connected by edges on the canvas
- **It's all just regular Svelte components**

To get up to speed with the terminologies we use, check out the flow below.

<RemoteCodeViewer
  framework="svelte"
  route="/guides/concepts/"
  showEditor={false}
  showOpenInCodeSandbox={false}
  showOpenInStackblitz={false}
/>

Some terminologies you need to be aware when we talk about working with Svelte Flow in your code:

- **Svelte Flow Component**: The main component that renders the flowgraph
  - [**Svelte Flow Props**](/api-reference/svelte-flow): All configuration and data is passed as props
- **Viewport**: The visible area of the flowgraph, that can be panned and zoomed
  - _"In the viewport"_ means something is moving with the transformation of the viewport
- [**Base Styles**](/learn/customization/theming): The minimal css that needs to be imported to make Svelte Flow work
- [**Built-In Components**](/learn/getting-started/built-in-components): additional plug and play components that are included like Controls and a MiniMap

Now you know everything you need to understand pretty much everything we refer to in the docs. Next, let's [install Svelte Flow](/learn/getting-started/installation) and build our [first flow](/learn/getting-started/building-a-flow)!

Commit message:

improve wording and cut down on some slack

sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/learn/getting-started/key-concepts.mdx, after:

import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Key Concepts

At its core, Svelte Flow is about creating interactive flowgraphs - a collection of nodes connected by edges. While this might sound simple in theory, Svelte Flow provides the foundation for building complex interactive diagrams:

- An infinite, interactive canvas for your flowgraph
- The ability to render and connect nodes with edges
- **Everything is built using standard Svelte components**

To help you understand the terminology we use throughout the documentation, take a look at the example flow below.

<RemoteCodeViewer
  framework="svelte"
  route="/guides/concepts/"
  showEditor={false}
  showOpenInCodeSandbox={false}
  showOpenInStackblitz={false}
/>

Here are the key terms you'll encounter when working with Svelte Flow:

- **Svelte Flow Component**: The main component that renders your flowgraph
  - [**Svelte Flow Props**](/api-reference/svelte-flow): All configuration and data is passed through props
- **Viewport**: The visible area of your flowgraph that can be panned and zoomed
  - When we say something is "in the viewport," it means it moves with the viewport's transformation
- [**Base Styles**](/learn/customization/theming): The essential CSS required for Svelte Flow to function properly
- [**Built-In Components**](/learn/getting-started/built-in-components): Ready-to-use components like Controls and MiniMap that enhance your flowgraph

With these concepts in mind, you're ready to [install Svelte Flow](/learn/getting-started/installation) and start [building your first flow](/learn/getting-started/building-a-flow)!
