sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/components/index.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import BetaCallout from '@/components/components-beta-callout';

<BetaCallout />

# React Flow Components

This is a collection of useful components that you can easily integrate into your React Flow application. It utilizes the new [shadcn CLI](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/cli), which builds on top of [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) components.

## Prerequisites

You need to have `shadcn` and `tailwind` configured in your project. If you haven't installed it, you can follow the steps explained in the [shadcn installation guide](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation). If `shadcn` and `tailwind` are part of your project, you can initialize shadcn-ui by running:

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn init
```

If you want to learn more about the motivation behind this project, you can find a detailed blog post [here](https://xyflow.com/blog/react-flow-components).

## Usage

Find a component you like and run the command to add it to your project.

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn add https://ui.reactflow.dev/component-name
```

- This command copies the component code inside your components folder. You can change this folder by adding an alias inside your `shadcn.config.js`.

- It automatically installs all necessary dependencies

- It utilizes previously added and even modified components or asks you if you'd like to overwrite them.

- It uses your existing tailwind configuration.

<Callout type="info">
  These components are **not black-boxes** and are meant to be **modified and
  owned by you**.
</Callout>

For more information visit the [shadcn documentation](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs).

Commit message:

fix(components): use latest version of shadcn cli for init and installation

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/components/index.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import BetaCallout from '@/components/components-beta-callout';

<BetaCallout />

# React Flow Components

This is a collection of useful components that you can easily integrate into your React Flow application. It utilizes the new [shadcn CLI](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/cli), which builds on top of [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) components.

## Prerequisites

You need to have `shadcn` and `tailwind` configured in your project. If you haven't installed it, you can follow the steps explained in the [shadcn installation guide](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation). If `shadcn` and `tailwind` are part of your project, you can initialize shadcn-ui by running:

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest init
```

If you want to learn more about the motivation behind this project, you can find a detailed blog post [here](https://xyflow.com/blog/react-flow-components).

## Usage

Find a component you like and run the command to add it to your project.

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.reactflow.dev/component-name
```

- This command copies the component code inside your components folder. You can change this folder by adding an alias inside your `shadcn.config.js`.

- It automatically installs all necessary dependencies

- It utilizes previously added and even modified components or asks you if you'd like to overwrite them.

- It uses your existing tailwind configuration.

- The components are **not black-boxes** and can be **modified and extended** to fit your needs.

For more information visit the [shadcn documentation](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs).
