sites/svelteflow.dev/src/pages/learn/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Quickstart
description: How to get tarted with Svelte Flow in your Svelte project
---

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs, Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components';

# Quickstart

Svelte Flow is a highly customizable component for building interactive graphs and node-based editors, built by the creators of React Flow.

<Callout>
  This package is currently in an alpha state and under heavy development. The
  API is likely to change.
</Callout>

## Play online

You can try Svelte Flow without setting anything up locally by checking out the starter projects we have on [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com):

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card
    title="new.svelteflow.dev/js"
    href="https://new.svelteflow.dev/js"
    icon={
      <div className="rounded-full w-10 h-10 bg-yellow-200 text-gray-700 font-black flex items-center justify-center">
        JS
      </div>
    }
  />
  <Card
    title="new.svelteflow.dev/ts"
    href="https://new.svelteflow.dev/ts"
    icon={
      <div className="rounded-full w-10 h-10 bg-blue-500 text-white font-black flex items-center justify-center">
        TS
      </div>
    }
  />
</Cards>

## Vite template

If you want to get started right away, you can use our [vite template](https://github.com/xyflow/vite-svelte-flow-template):

```bash copy
npx degit xyflow/vite-svelte-flow-template app-name
```

## Installation

The easiest way to get the latest version of Svelte Flow is to install it via npm, yarn or pnpm:

<Tabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    npm install @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    pnpm add @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    yarn add @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
What is “xyflow”? Learn more [here](https://wbkd.notion.site/Upcoming-Changes-at-React-Flow-1a443641891a4069927c0a115e915251).

## Creating your first flow

We get started by stacking together the most important components of Svelte Flow: `SvelteFlow`, `Controls`, `Background` and `MiniMap`. A basic flow looks like this:

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { writable } from 'svelte/store';
  import {
    SvelteFlow,
    Controls,
    Background,
    BackgroundVariant,
    MiniMap
  } from '@xyflow/svelte';

  // 👇 this is important! You need to import the styles for Svelte Flow to work
  import '@xyflow/svelte/dist/style.css';

  // We are using writables for the nodes and edges to sync them easily. When a user drags a node for example, Svelte Flow updates its position.
  const nodes = writable([
    {
      id: '1',
      type: 'input',
      data: { label: 'Input Node' },
      position: { x: 0, y: 0 }
    },
    {
      id: '2',
      type: 'default',
      data: { label: 'Node' },
      position: { x: 0, y: 150 }
    }
  ]);

  // same for edges
  const edges = writable([
    {
      id: '1-2',
      type: 'default',
      source: '1',
      target: '2',
      label: 'Edge Text'
    }
  ]);

  const snapGrid = [25, 25];
</script>

<!--
👇 By default, the Svelte Flow container has a height of 100%.
This means that the parent container needs a height to render the flow.
-->
<div style:height="500px">
  <SvelteFlow
    {nodes}
    {edges}
    {snapGrid}
    fitView
    on:nodeclick={(event) => console.log('on node click', event.detail.node)}
  >
    <Controls />
    <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Dots} />
    <MiniMap />
  </SvelteFlow>
</div>
```

## How to Contribute

**Show us what you make:** Drop it in into our [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/Bqt6xrs), [tweet](https://twitter.com/reactflowdev) at us, or email us at info@xyflow.com

**Community Participation:** Ask and answer questions in our [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/Bqt6xrs) or jump in on Github discussions.

**Squash Bugs:** We can’t catch them all. Check existing issues and discussions first, then create a new issue to tell us what’s up.

**Financial Support:** If you are an organization who wants to make sure Svelte Flow continues to be maintained, reach out to us at info@xyflow.com

And of course, we love Github stars ⭐

Commit message:

chore(svelte): link to whats new section

sites/svelteflow.dev/src/pages/learn/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Quickstart
description: How to get tarted with Svelte Flow in your Svelte project
---

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs, Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components';

# Quickstart

Svelte Flow is a highly customizable component for building interactive graphs and node-based editors, built by the creators of React Flow.

<Callout>
  This package is currently in an alpha state and under heavy development. The
  API is likely to change. You can read about the latest changes in the ["What's
  New" section](/whats-new).
</Callout>

## Play online

You can try Svelte Flow without setting anything up locally by checking out the starter projects we have on [Stackblitz](https://stackblitz.com):

<Cards num={2}>
  <Card
    title="new.svelteflow.dev/js"
    href="https://new.svelteflow.dev/js"
    icon={
      <div className="rounded-full w-10 h-10 bg-yellow-200 text-gray-700 font-black flex items-center justify-center">
        JS
      </div>
    }
  />
  <Card
    title="new.svelteflow.dev/ts"
    href="https://new.svelteflow.dev/ts"
    icon={
      <div className="rounded-full w-10 h-10 bg-blue-500 text-white font-black flex items-center justify-center">
        TS
      </div>
    }
  />
</Cards>

## Vite template

If you want to get started right away, you can use our [vite template](https://github.com/xyflow/vite-svelte-flow-template):

```bash copy
npx degit xyflow/vite-svelte-flow-template app-name
```

## Installation

The easiest way to get the latest version of Svelte Flow is to install it via npm, yarn or pnpm:

<Tabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    npm install @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    pnpm add @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    yarn add @xyflow/svelte
    ```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
What is “xyflow”? Learn more [here](https://wbkd.notion.site/Upcoming-Changes-at-React-Flow-1a443641891a4069927c0a115e915251).

## Creating your first flow

We get started by stacking together the most important components of Svelte Flow: `SvelteFlow`, `Controls`, `Background` and `MiniMap`. A basic flow looks like this:

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { writable } from 'svelte/store';
  import {
    SvelteFlow,
    Controls,
    Background,
    BackgroundVariant,
    MiniMap
  } from '@xyflow/svelte';

  // 👇 this is important! You need to import the styles for Svelte Flow to work
  import '@xyflow/svelte/dist/style.css';

  // We are using writables for the nodes and edges to sync them easily. When a user drags a node for example, Svelte Flow updates its position.
  const nodes = writable([
    {
      id: '1',
      type: 'input',
      data: { label: 'Input Node' },
      position: { x: 0, y: 0 }
    },
    {
      id: '2',
      type: 'default',
      data: { label: 'Node' },
      position: { x: 0, y: 150 }
    }
  ]);

  // same for edges
  const edges = writable([
    {
      id: '1-2',
      type: 'default',
      source: '1',
      target: '2',
      label: 'Edge Text'
    }
  ]);

  const snapGrid = [25, 25];
</script>

<!--
👇 By default, the Svelte Flow container has a height of 100%.
This means that the parent container needs a height to render the flow.
-->
<div style:height="500px">
  <SvelteFlow
    {nodes}
    {edges}
    {snapGrid}
    fitView
    on:nodeclick={(event) => console.log('on node click', event.detail.node)}
  >
    <Controls />
    <Background variant={BackgroundVariant.Dots} />
    <MiniMap />
  </SvelteFlow>
</div>
```

## How to Contribute

**Show us what you make:** Drop it in into our [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/Bqt6xrs), [tweet](https://twitter.com/reactflowdev) at us, or email us at info@xyflow.com

**Community Participation:** Ask and answer questions in our [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/Bqt6xrs) or jump in on Github discussions.

**Squash Bugs:** We can’t catch them all. Check existing issues and discussions first, then create a new issue to tell us what’s up.

**Financial Support:** If you are an organization who wants to make sure Svelte Flow continues to be maintained, reach out to us at info@xyflow.com

And of course, we love Github stars ⭐
