sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/react-flow.mdx, before:

---
title: The ReactFlow component
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  commonProps,
  viewportProps,
  edgeProps,
  interactionProps,
  connectionLineProps,
  keyboardProps,
  generalEventHandlerProps,
  nodeEventHandlerProps,
  edgeEventHandlerProps,
  connectionEventHandlerProps,
  paneEventHandlerProps,
  selectionEventHandlerProps,
} from '@/page-data/reference/ReactFlow.props.ts';

# &lt;ReactFlow />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/main/packages/react/src/container/ReactFlow/index.tsx/#L47)

The `<ReactFlow />` component is the heart of your React Flow application. It
renders your nodes and edges, handles user interaction, and can manage its own
state if used as an [uncontrolled flow](/learn/advanced-use/uncontrolled-flow).

```tsx
import { ReactFlow } from '@xyflow/react'

export default function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow
    nodes={...}
    edges={...}
    onNodesChange={...}
    ...
  />
}
```

This component takes a lot of different props, most of which are optional. We've
tried to document them in groups that make sense to help you find your way.

## Common props

These are the props you will most commonly use when working with React Flow. If
you are working with a controlled flow with custom nodes, you will likely use
almost all of these!

<PropsTable {...commonProps} />

## Viewport props

<PropsTable {...viewportProps} />

## Edge props

<PropsTable {...edgeProps} />

## Event handlers

<Callout type="warning">
  It's important to remember to define any event handlers outside of your
  component or using React's `useCallback` hook. If you don't, this can cause
  React Flow to enter an infinite re-render loop!
</Callout>

### General Events

<PropsTable {...generalEventHandlerProps} />

### Node Events

<PropsTable {...nodeEventHandlerProps} />

### Edge Events

<PropsTable {...edgeEventHandlerProps} />

### Connection Events

<PropsTable {...connectionEventHandlerProps} />

### Pane Events

<PropsTable {...paneEventHandlerProps} />

### Selection Events

<PropsTable {...selectionEventHandlerProps} />

## Interaction props

<PropsTable {...interactionProps} />

## Connection line props

<PropsTable {...connectionLineProps} />

## Keyboard props

React Flow let's you pass in a few different keyboard shortcuts as another way
to interact with your flow. We've tried to set up sensible defaults like using
backspace to delete any selected nodes or edges, but you can use these props to
set your own.

To disable any of these shortcuts, pass in `null` to to the prop you want to
disable.

<PropsTable {...keyboardProps} />

## Notes

- The props of this component get exported as `ReactFlowProps`

Commit message:

:memo: Document the 'noPanClassName', 'noDragClassName', and 'noWheelClassName' props.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/react-flow.mdx, after:

---
title: The ReactFlow component
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  commonProps,
  viewportProps,
  edgeProps,
  interactionProps,
  connectionLineProps,
  keyboardProps,
  generalEventHandlerProps,
  nodeEventHandlerProps,
  edgeEventHandlerProps,
  connectionEventHandlerProps,
  paneEventHandlerProps,
  selectionEventHandlerProps,
  styleProps
} from '@/page-data/reference/ReactFlow.props.ts';

# &lt;ReactFlow />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/main/packages/react/src/container/ReactFlow/index.tsx/#L47)

The `<ReactFlow />` component is the heart of your React Flow application. It
renders your nodes and edges, handles user interaction, and can manage its own
state if used as an [uncontrolled flow](/learn/advanced-use/uncontrolled-flow).

```tsx
import { ReactFlow } from '@xyflow/react'

export default function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow
    nodes={...}
    edges={...}
    onNodesChange={...}
    ...
  />
}
```

This component takes a lot of different props, most of which are optional. We've
tried to document them in groups that make sense to help you find your way.

## Common props

These are the props you will most commonly use when working with React Flow. If
you are working with a controlled flow with custom nodes, you will likely use
almost all of these!

<PropsTable {...commonProps} />

## Viewport props

<PropsTable {...viewportProps} />

## Edge props

<PropsTable {...edgeProps} />

## Event handlers

<Callout type="warning">
  It's important to remember to define any event handlers outside of your
  component or using React's `useCallback` hook. If you don't, this can cause
  React Flow to enter an infinite re-render loop!
</Callout>

### General Events

<PropsTable {...generalEventHandlerProps} />

### Node Events

<PropsTable {...nodeEventHandlerProps} />

### Edge Events

<PropsTable {...edgeEventHandlerProps} />

### Connection Events

<PropsTable {...connectionEventHandlerProps} />

### Pane Events

<PropsTable {...paneEventHandlerProps} />

### Selection Events

<PropsTable {...selectionEventHandlerProps} />

## Interaction props

<PropsTable {...interactionProps} />

## Connection line props

<PropsTable {...connectionLineProps} />

## Keyboard props

React Flow let's you pass in a few different keyboard shortcuts as another way
to interact with your flow. We've tried to set up sensible defaults like using
backspace to delete any selected nodes or edges, but you can use these props to
set your own.

To disable any of these shortcuts, pass in `null` to to the prop you want to
disable.

<PropsTable {...keyboardProps} />

## Style props

Applying certain classes to elements rendered inside the canvas will change how
interactions are handled. These props let you configure those class names if you
need to.

<PropsTable {...styleProps} />

## Notes

- The props of this component get exported as `ReactFlowProps`
