sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/api-reference/svelte-flow.mdx, before:

---
title: The SvelteFlow component
description: The SvelteFlow component is the heart of your Svelte Flow application.
sidebarTitle: <SvelteFlow />
---

import { SvelteFlowAPIProps } from '@/references/SvelteFlow.props';

# \<SvelteFlow />

[Source on Github](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/main/packages/svelte/src/lib/container/SvelteFlow/SvelteFlow.svelte)

The `<SvelteFlow />` component is the heart of your Svelte Flow application.

```svelte
<script>
  import { SvelteFlow } from '@xyflow/svelte';

  let nodes = $state.raw([
    { id: 'a', data: { label: 'node a' }, position: { x: 0, y: 0 } },
    { id: 'b', data: { label: 'node b' }, position: { x: 0, y: 100 } }
  ]);

  let edges = $state.raw([
    { id: 'e1-2', source: 'a', target: 'b' }
  ]);
</script>

<SvelteFlow
  bind:nodes
  bind:edges
  fitView
/>
```

This component takes a lot of different props, most of which are optional. We've
tried to document them in groups that make sense to help you find your way.

## Common props

These are the props you will most commonly use when working with Svelte Flow.

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="common" />

## Viewport props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="viewport" />

## Edge props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="edge" />

## Event handlers

### General Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="generalEvents" />

### Node Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="nodeEvents" />

### Edge Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="edgeEvents" />

### Connection Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="connectionEvents" />

### Pane Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="paneEvents" />

## Keyboard props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="keyboard" />

## Interaction props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="interaction" />

## Connection line props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="connectionLine" />

## Notes

- The props of this component get exported as `SvelteFlowProps`

Commit message:

chore(svelte): add docs for svelte flow props

sites/svelteflow.dev/src/content/api-reference/svelte-flow.mdx, after:

---
title: The SvelteFlow component
description: The SvelteFlow component is the heart of your Svelte Flow application.
sidebarTitle: <SvelteFlow />
---

import { SvelteFlowAPIProps } from '@/references/SvelteFlow.props';

# \<SvelteFlow />

[Source on Github](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/main/packages/svelte/src/lib/container/SvelteFlow/SvelteFlow.svelte)

The `<SvelteFlow />` component is the heart of your Svelte Flow application.

```svelte
<script>
  import { SvelteFlow } from '@xyflow/svelte';

  let nodes = $state.raw([
    { id: 'a', data: { label: 'node a' }, position: { x: 0, y: 0 } },
    { id: 'b', data: { label: 'node b' }, position: { x: 0, y: 100 } }
  ]);

  let edges = $state.raw([
    { id: 'e1-2', source: 'a', target: 'b' }
  ]);
</script>

<SvelteFlow
  bind:nodes
  bind:edges
  fitView
/>
```

This component takes a lot of different props, most of which are optional. We've
tried to document them in groups that make sense to help you find your way.

## Common props

These are the props you will most commonly use when working with Svelte Flow.

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="common" />

## Viewport props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="viewport" />

## Edge props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="edge" />

## Event handlers

### General Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="generalEvents" />

### Node Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="nodeEvents" />

### Edge Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="edgeEvents" />

### Connection Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="connectionEvents" />

### Pane Events

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="paneEvents" />

## Keyboard props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="keyboard" />

## Interaction props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="interaction" />

## Connection line props

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="connectionLine" />

## Style props

Applying certain classes to elements rendered inside the canvas will change how
interactions are handled. These props let you configure those class names if you
need to.

<SvelteFlowAPIProps group="style" />

## Notes

- The props of this component get exported as `SvelteFlowProps`
