sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/customization/custom-edges.mdx, before:

---
description:
  Like custom nodes, parts of a custom edge in React Flow are just React components.
  This guide shows you how to implement a custom edge with some additional controls.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { Image } from 'xy-shared';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Custom Edges

Like [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes), parts of a custom edge in
React Flow are just React components: that means you can render anything you want
along an edge! This guide shows you how to implement a custom edge with some
additional controls.

## A basic custom edge

An edge isn't much use to us if it doesn't render a path between two connected
nodes. These paths are always SVG-based and are typically rendered using the
[`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component. To calculate
the actual SVG path to render, React Flow comes with some handy utility functions:

- [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path)
- [`getSimpleBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-simple-bezier-path)
- [`getSmoothStepPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-smooth-step-path)
- [`getStraightPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-straight-path)

To kick start our custom edge, we'll just render a straight path between the
source and target.

```jsx
import { BaseEdge, getStraightPath } from '@xyflow/react';

export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
    </>
  );
}
```

<Callout type="info">
  All the props passed to your custom edge component can be found in the API
  reference under the [`EdgeProps`](/api-reference/types/edge-props) type.
</Callout>

This gives us a straight edge that behaves the same as the default `"straight"`
[edge type](/api-reference/types/edge#default-edge-types). To use it, we also
need to update the [`edgeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#edge-types) prop on
the `<ReactFlow />` component.

It's important to define the `edgeTypes` object _outside of the component_ or to
use React's `useMemo` hook to prevent unnecessary re-renders. React Flow will
show a warning in the console if you forget to do this.

```jsx
import ReactFlow from '@xyflow/react'
import CustomEdge from './CustomEdge'


const edgeTypes = {
  'custom-edge': CustomEdge
}

export function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow edgeTypes={edgeTypes} ... />
}
```

After defining the `edgeTypes` object, we can use our new custom edge by setting
the `type` field of an edge to `"custom-edge"`.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge" framework="react" />

## Adding an edge label

One of the more common uses for custom edges is rendering some controls or info
along an edge's path. In React Flow we call that an _edge label_ and unlike the
edge path, edge labels can be any React component!

To render a custom edge label we must wrap it in the
[`<EdgeLabelRenderer />`](/api-reference/components/edge-label-renderer) component.
This is necessary for performance reasons: the edge label renderer is a portal
to a single container that _all_ edge labels are rendered into.

Let's add a button to our custom edge that can be used to delete the edge it's
attached to:

```jsx
import {
  BaseEdge,
  EdgeLabelRenderer,
  getStraightPath,
  useReactFlow,
} from '@xyflow/react';

export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const { setEdges } = useReactFlow();
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
      <EdgeLabelRenderer>
        <button
          onClick={() => setEdges((edges) => edges.filter((e) => e.id !== id))}
        >
          delete
        </button>
      </EdgeLabelRenderer>
    </>
  );
}
```

If we try to use this edge now, we'll see that the button is rendered in the
centre of the flow (it might be hidden behind "Node A"). Because of the edge
label portal, we'll need to do some extra work to position the button ourselves.

<Image
  src="/img/learn/edge-label-renderer-position.png"
  alt="A screen shot of a simple flow. The edge label renderer is highlighted in
  the DOM inspector and the button is rendered in the centre of the flow."
/>

Fortunately, the path utils we've already seen can help us with this! Along with
the SVG path to render, these functions also return the `x` and `y` coordinates
of the path's midpoint. We can then use these coordinates to translate our custom
edge label's into the right position!

```jsx
export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const { setEdges } = useReactFlow();
  const [edgePath, labelX, labelY] = getStraightPath({ ... });

  return (
    ...
        <button
          style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            transform: `translate(-50%, -50%) translate(${labelX}px, ${labelY}px)`,
            pointerEvents: 'all',
          }}
          className="nodrag nopan"
          onClick={() => {
            setEdges((es) => es.filter((e) => e.id !== id));
          }}
        >
    ...
  );
}
```

<Callout type="info">
  To make sure our edge labels are interactive and not just for presentation, it
  is important to add `pointer-events: all` to the label's style. This will ensure
  that the label is clickable.

And just like with interactive controls in custom nodes, we need to remember
to add the `nodrag` and `nopan` classes to the label to stop mouse events from
controlling the canvas.

</Callout>

Here's an interactive example with our updated custom edge. Clicking the delete
button will remove that edge from the flow. Creating a new edge will use the
custom node.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge-2" framework="react" />

## Making Custom SVG Edge Paths

As discussed previously, if you want to make a custom edge in React Flow, you have to use either of the four path creation functions discussed above (e.g [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path)). However if you want to make some other path shape like a Sinusoidal edge or some other edge type then you will have to make the edge path yourself.

The edge path we get from functions like [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path) is just a path string which we pass into the `path` prop of the `<BaseEdge />` component. It contains the necessary information needed in order to draw that path, like where it should start from, where it should curve, where it should end, etc. A simple straight path string between two points `(x1, y1)` to `(x2, y2)` would look like:

```jsx
M x1 y1 L x2 y2
```

An SVG path is a concatenated list of commands like `M`, `L`, `Q`, etc, along with their values. Some of these commands are listed below, along with their supported values.

- `M x1 y1` is the Move To command which moves the current point to the x1, y1 coordinate.
- `L x1 y1` is the Line To command which draws a line from the current point to x1, y1 coordinate.
- `Q x1 y1 x2 y2` is the Quadratic Bezier Curve command which draws a bezier curve from the current point to the x2, y2 coordinate. x1, y1 is the control point of the curve which determines the curviness of the curve.

Whenever we want to start a path for our custom edge, we use the `M` command to move our current point to `sourceX, sourceY` which we get as props in the custom edge component. Then based on the shape we want, we will use other commands like `L`(to make lines), `Q`(to make curves) and then finally end our path at `targetX, targetY` which we get as props in the custom edge component.

If you want to learn more about SVG paths, you can check out [SVG-Path-Editor](https://yqnn.github.io/svg-path-editor/). You can paste any SVG path there and analyze individual path commands via an intuitive UI.

Here is an example with two types of custom edge paths, a Step edge and a Sinusoidal edge. You should look at the Step edge first to get your hands dirty with custom SVG paths since it's simple, and then look at how the Sinusoidal edge is made. After going through this example, you will have the necessary knowledge to make custom SVG paths for your custom edges.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge-path" framework="react" />

Commit message:

chore: link to node props reference inside customization content

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/customization/custom-edges.mdx, after:

---
description:
  Like custom nodes, parts of a custom edge in React Flow are just React components.
  This guide shows you how to implement a custom edge with some additional controls.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { Image } from 'xy-shared';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Custom Edges

Like [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes), parts of a custom edge in
React Flow are just React components: that means you can render anything you want
along an edge! This guide shows you how to implement a custom edge with some
additional controls. For a comprehensive reference of props available for custom edges, see the [Custom Edge Props documentation](/api-reference/types/edge-props).

## A basic custom edge

An edge isn't much use to us if it doesn't render a path between two connected
nodes. These paths are always SVG-based and are typically rendered using the
[`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component. To calculate
the actual SVG path to render, React Flow comes with some handy utility functions:

- [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path)
- [`getSimpleBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-simple-bezier-path)
- [`getSmoothStepPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-smooth-step-path)
- [`getStraightPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-straight-path)

To kick start our custom edge, we'll just render a straight path between the
source and target.

```jsx
import { BaseEdge, getStraightPath } from '@xyflow/react';

export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
    </>
  );
}
```

<Callout type="info">
  All the props passed to your custom edge component can be found in the API
  reference under the [`EdgeProps`](/api-reference/types/edge-props) type.
</Callout>

This gives us a straight edge that behaves the same as the default `"straight"`
[edge type](/api-reference/types/edge#default-edge-types). To use it, we also
need to update the [`edgeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#edge-types) prop on
the `<ReactFlow />` component.

It's important to define the `edgeTypes` object _outside of the component_ or to
use React's `useMemo` hook to prevent unnecessary re-renders. React Flow will
show a warning in the console if you forget to do this.

```jsx
import ReactFlow from '@xyflow/react'
import CustomEdge from './CustomEdge'


const edgeTypes = {
  'custom-edge': CustomEdge
}

export function Flow() {
  return <ReactFlow edgeTypes={edgeTypes} ... />
}
```

After defining the `edgeTypes` object, we can use our new custom edge by setting
the `type` field of an edge to `"custom-edge"`.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge" framework="react" />

## Adding an edge label

One of the more common uses for custom edges is rendering some controls or info
along an edge's path. In React Flow we call that an _edge label_ and unlike the
edge path, edge labels can be any React component!

To render a custom edge label we must wrap it in the
[`<EdgeLabelRenderer />`](/api-reference/components/edge-label-renderer) component.
This is necessary for performance reasons: the edge label renderer is a portal
to a single container that _all_ edge labels are rendered into.

Let's add a button to our custom edge that can be used to delete the edge it's
attached to:

```jsx
import {
  BaseEdge,
  EdgeLabelRenderer,
  getStraightPath,
  useReactFlow,
} from '@xyflow/react';

export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const { setEdges } = useReactFlow();
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
      <EdgeLabelRenderer>
        <button
          onClick={() => setEdges((edges) => edges.filter((e) => e.id !== id))}
        >
          delete
        </button>
      </EdgeLabelRenderer>
    </>
  );
}
```

If we try to use this edge now, we'll see that the button is rendered in the
centre of the flow (it might be hidden behind "Node A"). Because of the edge
label portal, we'll need to do some extra work to position the button ourselves.

<Image
  src="/img/learn/edge-label-renderer-position.png"
  alt="A screen shot of a simple flow. The edge label renderer is highlighted in
  the DOM inspector and the button is rendered in the centre of the flow."
/>

Fortunately, the path utils we've already seen can help us with this! Along with
the SVG path to render, these functions also return the `x` and `y` coordinates
of the path's midpoint. We can then use these coordinates to translate our custom
edge label's into the right position!

```jsx
export default function CustomEdge({ id, sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY }) {
  const { setEdges } = useReactFlow();
  const [edgePath, labelX, labelY] = getStraightPath({ ... });

  return (
    ...
        <button
          style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            transform: `translate(-50%, -50%) translate(${labelX}px, ${labelY}px)`,
            pointerEvents: 'all',
          }}
          className="nodrag nopan"
          onClick={() => {
            setEdges((es) => es.filter((e) => e.id !== id));
          }}
        >
    ...
  );
}
```

<Callout type="info">
  To make sure our edge labels are interactive and not just for presentation, it
  is important to add `pointer-events: all` to the label's style. This will ensure
  that the label is clickable.

And just like with interactive controls in custom nodes, we need to remember
to add the `nodrag` and `nopan` classes to the label to stop mouse events from
controlling the canvas.

</Callout>

Here's an interactive example with our updated custom edge. Clicking the delete
button will remove that edge from the flow. Creating a new edge will use the
custom node.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge-2" framework="react" />

## Making Custom SVG Edge Paths

As discussed previously, if you want to make a custom edge in React Flow, you have to use either of the four path creation functions discussed above (e.g [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path)). However if you want to make some other path shape like a Sinusoidal edge or some other edge type then you will have to make the edge path yourself.

The edge path we get from functions like [`getBezierPath`](/api-reference/utils/get-bezier-path) is just a path string which we pass into the `path` prop of the `<BaseEdge />` component. It contains the necessary information needed in order to draw that path, like where it should start from, where it should curve, where it should end, etc. A simple straight path string between two points `(x1, y1)` to `(x2, y2)` would look like:

```jsx
M x1 y1 L x2 y2
```

An SVG path is a concatenated list of commands like `M`, `L`, `Q`, etc, along with their values. Some of these commands are listed below, along with their supported values.

- `M x1 y1` is the Move To command which moves the current point to the x1, y1 coordinate.
- `L x1 y1` is the Line To command which draws a line from the current point to x1, y1 coordinate.
- `Q x1 y1 x2 y2` is the Quadratic Bezier Curve command which draws a bezier curve from the current point to the x2, y2 coordinate. x1, y1 is the control point of the curve which determines the curviness of the curve.

Whenever we want to start a path for our custom edge, we use the `M` command to move our current point to `sourceX, sourceY` which we get as props in the custom edge component. Then based on the shape we want, we will use other commands like `L`(to make lines), `Q`(to make curves) and then finally end our path at `targetX, targetY` which we get as props in the custom edge component.

If you want to learn more about SVG paths, you can check out [SVG-Path-Editor](https://yqnn.github.io/svg-path-editor/). You can paste any SVG path there and analyze individual path commands via an intuitive UI.

Here is an example with two types of custom edge paths, a Step edge and a Sinusoidal edge. You should look at the Step edge first to get your hands dirty with custom SVG paths since it's simple, and then look at how the Sinusoidal edge is made. After going through this example, you will have the necessary knowledge to make custom SVG paths for your custom edges.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-edge-path" framework="react" />
