sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/customization/handles.mdx, before:

---
description: This guide shows you how to add handles to custom nodes in React Flow.
---

import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';

# Handles

Handles are the connection points on
[nodes](/learn/concepts/terms-and-definitions#nodes) in React Flow. Our built-in
nodes include one source and one target handle, but you can customize your nodes
with as many different handles as you need.

## Creating a node with handles

To create a [custom node](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) with handles, you
can use the [`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component provided
by React Flow. This component allows you to define source and target handles for
your custom nodes. Here's an example of how to implement a custom node with two
handles:

```jsx {7-8}
import { Handle } from '@xyflow/react';

export function CustomNode() {
  return (
    <div className="custom-node">
      <div>Custom Node Content</div>
      <Handle type="source" position="top" />
      <Handle type="target" position="bottom" />
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Using multiple handles

If you want to use multiple source or target handles in your custom node, you 
need to specify each handle with a unique `id`. This allows React Flow to 
differentiate between the handles when connecting edges.

```jsx /id="a"/ /id="b"/
  <Handle type="target" position="top" />
  <Handle type="source" position="right" id="a" />
  <Handle type="source" position="bottom" id="b" />
```

To connect an edge to a specific handle of a node, use the properties
`sourceHandle` (for the edge's starting point) and `targetHandle` (for the 
edge's ending point). By defining `sourceHandle` or `targetHandle` with the 
appropriate handle `id`, you instruct React Flow to attach the edge to that 
specific handle, ensuring that connections are made where you intend.

```js "sourceHandle: 'a'" "sourceHandle: 'b'"
const initialEdges = [
  { id: 'n1-n2', source: 'n1', sourceHandle: 'a', target: 'n2' },
  { id: 'n1-n3', source: 'n1', sourceHandle: 'b', target: 'n3' },
];
```

In this case, the source node is `n1` for both handles but the handle `id`s are 
different. One comes from handle id `a` and the other one from `b`. Both edges 
also have different target nodes:

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-node-2" framework="react" />

## Custom handles

You can create your own custom handles by wrapping the
[`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component.
This example shows a custom handle that only allows connections when the
connection source matches a given id.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from '@xyflow/react';

export function TargetHandleWithValidation({ position, source }) {
  return (
    <Handle
      type="target"
      position={position}
      isValidConnection={(connection) => connection.source === source}
      onConnect={(params) => console.log('handle onConnect', params)}
      style={{ background: '#fff' }}
    />
  );
}
```

## Typeless handles

If you want to create a handle that does not have a specific type (source or 
target), you can set [connectionMode](/api-reference/react-flow#connectionmode) 
to `Loose` in the `<ReactFlow />` component. This allows the handle to be used 
for both incoming and outgoing connections.

## Dynamic handles

If you are programmatically changing the position or number of handles in your
custom node, you need to update the node internals with the
[`useUpdateNodeInternals`](/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals) hook.

## Custom handle styles

Since the handle is a div, you can use CSS to style it or pass a style prop to
customize a Handle. You can see this in the
[Add Node On Edge Drop](/examples/nodes/add-node-on-edge-drop) and
[Simple Floating Edges](/examples/edges/simple-floating-edges) examples.

### Styling handles when connecting

The handle receives the additional class names `connecting` when the connection
line is above the handle and `valid` if the connection is valid. You can find an
example which uses these classes [here](/examples/interaction/validation).

### Hiding handles

If you need to hide a handle for some reason, you must use `visibility: hidden`
or `opacity: 0` instead of `display: none`. This is important because React
Flow needs to calculate the dimensions of the handle to work properly and using
`display: none` will report a width and height of `0`!

Commit message:

Enhance customization section for handles
Added information on positioning multiple handles and custom handles.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/customization/handles.mdx, after:

---
description: This guide shows you how to add handles to custom nodes in React Flow.
---

import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';
import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';

# Handles

Handles are the connection points on
[nodes](/learn/concepts/terms-and-definitions#nodes) in React Flow. Our built-in
nodes include one source and one target handle, but you can customize your nodes
with as many different handles as you need.

## Creating a node with handles

To create a [custom node](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) with handles, you
can use the [`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component provided
by React Flow. This component allows you to define source and target handles for
your custom nodes. Here's an example of how to implement a custom node with two
handles:

```jsx {7-8}
import { Handle } from '@xyflow/react';

export function CustomNode() {
  return (
    <div className="custom-node">
      <div>Custom Node Content</div>
      <Handle type="source" position="top" />
      <Handle type="target" position="bottom" />
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Using multiple handles

If you want to use multiple source or target handles in your custom node, you 
need to specify each handle with a unique `id`. This allows React Flow to 
differentiate between the handles when connecting edges.

```jsx /id="a"/ /id="b"/
  <Handle type="target" position="top" />
  <Handle type="source" position="right" id="a" />
  <Handle type="source" position="bottom" id="b" />
```

To connect an edge to a specific handle of a node, use the properties
`sourceHandle` (for the edge's starting point) and `targetHandle` (for the 
edge's ending point). By defining `sourceHandle` or `targetHandle` with the 
appropriate handle `id`, you instruct React Flow to attach the edge to that 
specific handle, ensuring that connections are made where you intend.

```js "sourceHandle: 'a'" "sourceHandle: 'b'"
const initialEdges = [
  { id: 'n1-n2', source: 'n1', sourceHandle: 'a', target: 'n2' },
  { id: 'n1-n3', source: 'n1', sourceHandle: 'b', target: 'n3' },
];
```

In this case, the source node is `n1` for both handles but the handle `id`s are 
different. One comes from handle id `a` and the other one from `b`. Both edges 
also have different target nodes:

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/custom-node-2" framework="react" />

By default React Flow positions a handle in the center of the specified side.
If you want to display multiple handles on a side, you can adjust the position 
via inline styles or overwrite the default CSS and position it on your own.

## Custom handles

You can create your own custom handles by wrapping the
[`<Handle />`](/api-reference/components/handle) component.
This example shows a custom handle that only allows connections when the
connection source matches a given id.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from '@xyflow/react';

export function TargetHandleWithValidation({ position, source }) {
  return (
    <Handle
      type="target"
      position={position}
      isValidConnection={(connection) => connection.source === source}
      onConnect={(params) => console.log('handle onConnect', params)}
      style={{ background: '#fff' }}
    />
  );
}
```

## Typeless handles

If you want to create a handle that does not have a specific type (source or 
target), you can set [connectionMode](/api-reference/react-flow#connectionmode) 
to `Loose` in the `<ReactFlow />` component. This allows the handle to be used 
for both incoming and outgoing connections.

## Dynamic handles

If you are programmatically changing the position or number of handles in your
custom node, you need to update the node internals with the
[`useUpdateNodeInternals`](/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals) hook.

## Custom handle styles

Since the handle is a div, you can use CSS to style it or pass a style prop to
customize a Handle. You can see this in the
[Add Node On Edge Drop](/examples/nodes/add-node-on-edge-drop) and
[Simple Floating Edges](/examples/edges/simple-floating-edges) examples.

### Styling handles when connecting

The handle receives the additional class names `connecting` when the connection
line is above the handle and `valid` if the connection is valid. You can find an
example which uses these classes [here](/examples/interaction/validation).

### Hiding handles

If you need to hide a handle for some reason, you must use `visibility: hidden`
or `opacity: 0` instead of `display: none`. This is important because React
Flow needs to calculate the dimensions of the handle to work properly and using
`display: none` will report a width and height of `0`!
