apps/example-apps/react/examples/edges/reconnect-edge/README.mdx, before:

---
title: Reconnect Edge
description: Click-drag to move an existing edge from one handle to another
---

An edge is reconnectable by dragging it to another handle if you are using the
[`onReconnect` handler prop](/api-reference/react-flow#edges). The handler gets called
after the edge gets dropped to a new handle. You can use the
[`reconnectEdge`](/api-reference/utils/reconnect-edge) helper function to update your
edges state accordingly.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="examples/edges/reconnect-edge" framework="react" />

A couple of properties interact with one another to determine whether an edge is updatable
or not:

- By default the [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) is
  set to `true`.

- For edges to actually be draggable, though, it is also necessary to define a
  [`onReconnect`](/api-reference/react-flow#onreconnect) handler.

- Individual edges can refine or override the
  [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) prop by setting
  their [`updatable`](/api-reference/types/edge#updatable) property.
  - `true` means the edge is updatable even if
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable)

  - `"source"` or `"target"` means the edge is updatable only from the source or target
    handle regardless of the
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) prop.

  - `false` means the edge is not updatable even if
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) is set to `true`.

Commit message:

chore: swap updatable documentation for reconnectable

apps/example-apps/react/examples/edges/reconnect-edge/README.mdx, after:

---
title: Reconnect Edge
description: Click-drag to move an existing edge from one handle to another
---

An edge is reconnectable by dragging it to another handle if you are using the
[`onReconnect` handler prop](/api-reference/react-flow#edges). The handler gets called
after the edge gets dropped to a new handle. You can use the
[`reconnectEdge`](/api-reference/utils/reconnect-edge) helper function to update your
edges state accordingly.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="examples/edges/reconnect-edge" framework="react" />

A couple of properties interact with one another to determine whether an edge is
reconnectable or not:

- By default the [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) is
  set to `true`.

- For edges to actually be draggable, though, it is also necessary to define a
  [`onReconnect`](/api-reference/react-flow#onreconnect) handler.

- Individual edges can refine or override the
  [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) prop by setting
  their [`reconnectable`](/api-reference/types/edge#reconnectable) property.
  - `true` means the edge is reconnectable even if
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable)

  - `"source"` or `"target"` means the edge is reconnectable only from the source or
    target handle regardless of the
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) prop.

  - `false` means the edge is not reconnectable even if
    [`edgesReconnectable`](/api-reference/react-flow#edgesreconnectable) is set to `true`.
