sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/ui/index.mdx, before:

# React Flow UI

Ready-to-use React Flow components built with [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
components and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). Useful for new projects, MVPs, or
when you need to get up and running quickly.

## Prerequisites

You need to have **shadcn and tailwind configured in your project**. If you haven't
installed it, you can follow the steps explained in the
[shadcn installation guide](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation). If shadcn and
tailwind are part of your project, you can initialize shadcn-ui by running:

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest init
```

If you want to learn more about the motivation behind this project, you can find a
detailed blog post [here](https://xyflow.com/blog/react-flow-components). For a more
in-depth tutorial, we also recently published a new guide on
[getting started with React Flow UI](/learn/tutorials/getting-started-with-react-flow-components).

## Usage

Find a component you like and run the command to add it to your project.

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.reactflow.dev/component-name
```

- This command copies the component code inside your components folder. You can change
  this folder by adding an alias inside your `components.json`.

- It automatically installs all necessary dependencies

- It utilizes previously added and even modified components or asks you if you'd like to
  overwrite them.

- It uses your existing tailwind configuration.

- The components are **not black-boxes** and can be **modified and extended** to fit your
  needs.

For more information visit the [shadcn documentation](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs).

Commit message:

Add note about importing React Flow stylesheet in main UI components readme

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/ui/index.mdx, after:

# React Flow UI

Ready-to-use React Flow components built with [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
components and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/). Useful for new projects, MVPs, or
when you need to get up and running quickly.

## Prerequisites

You need to have **shadcn and tailwind configured in your project**. If you haven't
installed it, you can follow the steps explained in the
[shadcn installation guide](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/installation). If shadcn and
tailwind are part of your project, you can initialize shadcn-ui by running:

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest init
```

If you want to learn more about the motivation behind this project, you can find a
detailed blog post [here](https://xyflow.com/blog/react-flow-components). For a more
in-depth tutorial, we also recently published a new guide on
[getting started with React Flow UI](/learn/tutorials/getting-started-with-react-flow-components).


> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Using React Flow UI components **requires importing the main React Flow CSS stylesheet** before you import the **shadcn UI stylesheet**.
> You usually do so in the Typescript or Javascript file where you use the main [`<ReactFlow>`](/api-reference/react-flow) component.

```tsx filename="App.tsx"
import "@xyflow/react/dist/style.css";
```

## Usage

Find a component you like and run the command to add it to your project.

```bash copy npm2yarn
npx shadcn@latest add https://ui.reactflow.dev/component-name
```

- This command copies the component code inside your components folder. You can change
  this folder by adding an alias inside your `components.json`.

- It automatically installs all necessary dependencies

- It utilizes previously added and even modified components or asks you if you'd like to
  overwrite them.

- It uses your existing tailwind configuration.

- The components are **not black-boxes** and can be **modified and extended** to fit your
  needs.

For more information visit the [shadcn documentation](https://ui.shadcn.com/docs).
