sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/add-edge.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | addEdge()
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/addEdge.ts';

# addEdge()

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/utils/graph.ts/#L73)

This util is a convenience function to add a new [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) to an
array of edges. It also performs some validation to make sure you don't add an
invalid edge or duplicate an existing one.

```js
import { useCallback } from 'react';
import ReactFlow, { useNodesState, useEdgesState } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  const [nodes, setNodes, onNodesChange] = useNodesState([]);
  const [edges, setEdges, onEdgesChange] = useEdgesState([]);
  const onConnect = useCallback(
    (connection) => {
      setEdges((oldEdges) => addEdge(connection, oldEdges));
    },
    [setEdges],
  );

  return <ReactFLow nodes={nodes} edges={edges} onConnect={onConnect} />;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- If an edge with the same `target` and `source` already exists (and the same
  `targetHandle` and `sourceHandle` if those are set), then this util won't add
  a new edge even if the `id` property is different.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/add-edge.mdx, after:

---
title: addEdge()
description:
  "This util is a convenience function to add a new `Edge` to an array of edges.
  It also performs some validation to make sure you don't add an invalid edge or
  duplicate an existing one."
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/addEdge.ts';

# addEdge()

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/utils/graph.ts/#L73)

This util is a convenience function to add a new [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) to an
array of edges. It also performs some validation to make sure you don't add an
invalid edge or duplicate an existing one.

```js
import { useCallback } from 'react';
import ReactFlow, { useNodesState, useEdgesState } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  const [nodes, setNodes, onNodesChange] = useNodesState([]);
  const [edges, setEdges, onEdgesChange] = useEdgesState([]);
  const onConnect = useCallback(
    (connection) => {
      setEdges((oldEdges) => addEdge(connection, oldEdges));
    },
    [setEdges],
  );

  return <ReactFLow nodes={nodes} edges={edges} onConnect={onConnect} />;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- If an edge with the same `target` and `source` already exists (and the same
  `targetHandle` and `sourceHandle` if those are set), then this util won't add
  a new edge even if the `id` property is different.
