sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/get-smooth-step-path.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | getSmoothStepPath()
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/getSmoothStepPath.ts';

# getSmoothStepPath()

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/SmoothStepEdge.tsx/#L197)

The `getBezierPath` util returns everything you need to render a stepped path
between two nodes. The `borderRadius` property can be used to choose how rounded
the corners of those steps are.

```js
import { Position, getSmoothStepPath } from 'reactflow';

const source = { x: 0, y: 20 };
const target = { x: 150, y: 100 };

const [path, labelX, labelY, offsetX, offsetY] = getSmoothStepPath({
  sourceX: source.x,
  sourceY: source.y,
  sourcePosition: Position.Right,
  targetX: target.x,
  targetY: target.y,
  targetPosition: Position.Left,
});

console.log(path); //=> "M0 20L20 20L 70,20Q 75,20 75,25L 75,95Q ..."
console.log(labelX, labelY); //=> 75, 60
console.log(offsetX, offsetY); //=> 75, 40
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This function returns a tuple (aka a fixed-size array) to make it easier to
  work with multiple edge paths at once.
- You can set the `borderRadius` property to `0` to get a step edge path.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/get-smooth-step-path.mdx, after:

---
title: getSmoothStepPath()
description:
  'The `getBezierPath` util returns everything you need to render a stepped path
  between two nodes. The `borderRadius` property can be used to choose how rounded
  the corners of those steps are.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/getSmoothStepPath.ts';

# getSmoothStepPath()

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/SmoothStepEdge.tsx/#L197)

The `getBezierPath` util returns everything you need to render a stepped path
between two nodes. The `borderRadius` property can be used to choose how rounded
the corners of those steps are.

```js
import { Position, getSmoothStepPath } from 'reactflow';

const source = { x: 0, y: 20 };
const target = { x: 150, y: 100 };

const [path, labelX, labelY, offsetX, offsetY] = getSmoothStepPath({
  sourceX: source.x,
  sourceY: source.y,
  sourcePosition: Position.Right,
  targetX: target.x,
  targetY: target.y,
  targetPosition: Position.Left,
});

console.log(path); //=> "M0 20L20 20L 70,20Q 75,20 75,25L 75,95Q ..."
console.log(labelX, labelY); //=> 75, 60
console.log(offsetX, offsetY); //=> 75, 40
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This function returns a tuple (aka a fixed-size array) to make it easier to
  work with multiple edge paths at once.
- You can set the `borderRadius` property to `0` to get a step edge path.
