sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/get-transform-for-bounds.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | getTransformForBounds()
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/getTransformForBounds.ts';

# getTransformForBounds()

[Source on Github](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/utils/graph.ts/#L273)

This util tells you what to set the viewport to in order to fit the given bounds.
You might use this to pre-calculate the viewport for a given set of nodes on the
server or calculate the viewport for the given bounds _without_ changing the
viewport directly.

```js
import { getTransformForBounds } from 'reactflow';

const transform = getTransformForBounds(
  {
    x: 0,
    y: 0,
    width: 100,
    height: 100,
  },
  1200,
  800,
  0.5,
  2,
);
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This is quite a low-level utility. You might want to look at the
  [`fitView`](/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance#fitview) or
  [`fitBounds`](/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance#fitbounds) methods for a more practical
  api.
- This function is called get**Transform**... for historical reasons. Its return
  type represents a [`Viewport`](/api-reference/types/viewport) in tuple form.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/utils/get-transform-for-bounds.mdx, after:

---
title: getTransformForBounds()
description:
  'This util tells you what to set the viewport to in order to fit the given bounds.
  You might use this to pre-calculate the viewport for a given set of nodes on the
  server or calculate the viewport for the given bounds _without_ changing the
  viewport directly.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/utils/getTransformForBounds.ts';

# getTransformForBounds()

[Source on Github](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/utils/graph.ts/#L273)

This util tells you what to set the viewport to in order to fit the given bounds.
You might use this to pre-calculate the viewport for a given set of nodes on the
server or calculate the viewport for the given bounds _without_ changing the
viewport directly.

```js
import { getTransformForBounds } from 'reactflow';

const transform = getTransformForBounds(
  {
    x: 0,
    y: 0,
    width: 100,
    height: 100,
  },
  1200,
  800,
  0.5,
  2,
);
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This is quite a low-level utility. You might want to look at the
  [`fitView`](/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance#fitview) or
  [`fitBounds`](/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance#fitbounds) methods for a more practical
  api.
- This function is called get**Transform**... for historical reasons. Its return
  type represents a [`Viewport`](/api-reference/types/viewport) in tuple form.
