sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | useUpdateNodeInternals
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useUpdateNodeInternals.ts';

# useUpdateNodeInternals

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useUpdateNodeInternals.ts/#L6)

When you programmatically add or remove handles to a node or update a node's
handle position, you need to let React Flow know about it using this hook. This
will update the internal dimensions of the node and properly reposition handles
on the canvas if necessary.

```jsx
import { useCallback, useState } from 'react';
import { Handle, useUpdateNodeInternals } from 'reactflow';

export default function RandomHandleNode({ id }) {
  const updateNodeInternals = useUpdateNodeInternals();
  const [handleCount, setHandleCount] = useState(0);
  const randomizeHandleCount = useCallback(() => {
    setHandleCount(Math.floor(Math.random() * 10));
    updateNodeInternals(id);
  }, [id, updateNodeInternals]);

  return (
    <>
      {Array.from({ length: handleCount }).map((_, index) => (
        <Handle
          key={index}
          type="target"
          position="left"
          id={`handle-${index}`}
        />
      ))}

      <div>
        <button onClick={randomizeHandleCount}>Randomize handle count</button>
        <p>There are {handleCount} handles on this node.</p>
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook can only be used in a component that is a child of a
  [`<ReactFlowProvider />`](/api-reference/react-flow-provider) or a
  [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow) component.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals.mdx, after:

---
title: useUpdateNodeInternals
description:
  "When you programmatically add or remove handles to a node or update a node's
  handle position, you need to let React Flow know about it using this hook. This
  will update the internal dimensions of the node and properly reposition handles
  on the canvas if necessary."
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useUpdateNodeInternals.ts';

# useUpdateNodeInternals

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useUpdateNodeInternals.ts/#L6)

When you programmatically add or remove handles to a node or update a node's
handle position, you need to let React Flow know about it using this hook. This
will update the internal dimensions of the node and properly reposition handles
on the canvas if necessary.

```jsx
import { useCallback, useState } from 'react';
import { Handle, useUpdateNodeInternals } from 'reactflow';

export default function RandomHandleNode({ id }) {
  const updateNodeInternals = useUpdateNodeInternals();
  const [handleCount, setHandleCount] = useState(0);
  const randomizeHandleCount = useCallback(() => {
    setHandleCount(Math.floor(Math.random() * 10));
    updateNodeInternals(id);
  }, [id, updateNodeInternals]);

  return (
    <>
      {Array.from({ length: handleCount }).map((_, index) => (
        <Handle
          key={index}
          type="target"
          position="left"
          id={`handle-${index}`}
        />
      ))}

      <div>
        <button onClick={randomizeHandleCount}>Randomize handle count</button>
        <p>There are {handleCount} handles on this node.</p>
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook can only be used in a component that is a child of a
  [`<ReactFlowProvider />`](/api-reference/react-flow-provider) or a
  [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow) component.
