sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-viewport.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | useViewport
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useViewport.ts';

# useViewport

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useViewport.ts/#L12)

The `useViewport` hook is a convenient way to read the current state of the
[`Viewport`](/api-reference/types/viewport) in a component. Components that use this hook
will re-render **whenever the viewport changes**.

```jsx
import { useViewport } from 'reactflow';

export default function ViewportDisplay() {
  const { x, y, zoom } = useViewport();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>
        The viewport is currently at ({x}, {y}) and zoomed to {zoom}.
      </p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook can only be used in a component that is a child of a
  [`<ReactFlowProvider />`](/api-reference/react-flow-provider) or a
  [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow) component.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-viewport.mdx, after:

---
title: useViewport
description:
  'The `useViewport` hook is a convenient way to read the current state of the
  `Viewport` in a component. Components that use this hook will re-render whenever
  the viewport changes.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useViewport.ts';

# useViewport

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useViewport.ts/#L12)

The `useViewport` hook is a convenient way to read the current state of the
[`Viewport`](/api-reference/types/viewport) in a component. Components that use this hook
will re-render **whenever the viewport changes**.

```jsx
import { useViewport } from 'reactflow';

export default function ViewportDisplay() {
  const { x, y, zoom } = useViewport();

  return (
    <div>
      <p>
        The viewport is currently at ({x}, {y}) and zoomed to {zoom}.
      </p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook can only be used in a component that is a child of a
  [`<ReactFlowProvider />`](/api-reference/react-flow-provider) or a
  [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow) component.
