sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-nodes-initialized.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | useNodesInitialized
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useNodesInitialized.ts';

# useNodesInitialized

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useNodesInitialized.ts/#L24)

This hook tells you whether all the nodes in a flow have been measured and given
a width and height. When you add a node to the flow, this hook will return
`false` and then `true` again once the node has been measured.

```jsx
import { useReactFlow, useNodesInitialized } from 'reactflow';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

const options = {
  includeHiddenNodes: false,
};

export default function useLayout() {
  const { getNodes } = useReactFlow();
  const nodesInitialized = useNodesInitialized(options);
  const [layoutedNodes, setLayoutedNodes] = useState(getNodes());

  useEffect(() => {
    if (nodesInitialized) {
      setLayoutedNodes(yourLayoutingFunction(getNodes()));
    }
  }, [nodesInitialized]);

  return layoutedNodes;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook always returns `false` if the internal nodes array is empty.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-nodes-initialized.mdx, after:

---
title: useNodesInitialized
description:
  'This hook tells you whether all the nodes in a flow have been measured and given
  a width and height. When you add a node to the flow, this hook will return
  `false` and then `true` again once the node has been measured.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useNodesInitialized.ts';

# useNodesInitialized

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useNodesInitialized.ts/#L24)

This hook tells you whether all the nodes in a flow have been measured and given
a width and height. When you add a node to the flow, this hook will return
`false` and then `true` again once the node has been measured.

```jsx
import { useReactFlow, useNodesInitialized } from 'reactflow';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

const options = {
  includeHiddenNodes: false,
};

export default function useLayout() {
  const { getNodes } = useReactFlow();
  const nodesInitialized = useNodesInitialized(options);
  const [layoutedNodes, setLayoutedNodes] = useState(getNodes());

  useEffect(() => {
    if (nodesInitialized) {
      setLayoutedNodes(yourLayoutingFunction(getNodes()));
    }
  }, [nodesInitialized]);

  return layoutedNodes;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook always returns `false` if the internal nodes array is empty.
