sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-edges.mdx, before:

---
title: useEdges
description:
  'This hook returns an array of the current edges. Components that use this hook
  will re-render whenever any edge changes.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useEdges.ts';

# useEdges

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/v11/packages/core/src/hooks/useEdges.ts/#L8)

This hook returns an array of the current edges. Components that use this hook
will re-render **whenever any edge changes**.

```jsx
import { useEdges } from '@xyflow/react';

export default function () {
  const edges = useEdges();

  return <div>There are currently {edges.length} edges!</div>;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- Relying on `useEdges` unecessarily can be a common cause of performance
  issues. Whenever any edge changes, this hook will cause the component to
  re-render. Often we actually care about something more specific, like when
  the _number_ of edges changes: where possible try to use
  [`useStore`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store) instead.

Commit message:

added typescript section for some functions & hooks

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-edges.mdx, after:

---
title: useEdges
description:
  'This hook returns an array of the current edges. Components that use this hook
  will re-render whenever any edge changes.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useEdges.ts';

# useEdges

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/xyflow/xyflow/blob/v11/packages/core/src/hooks/useEdges.ts/#L8)

This hook returns an array of the current edges. Components that use this hook
will re-render **whenever any edge changes**.

```jsx
import { useEdges } from '@xyflow/react';

export default function () {
  const edges = useEdges();

  return <div>There are currently {edges.length} edges!</div>;
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Typescript

This hook accepts a generic type argument of custom edge types. See this
[section in our Typescript guide](/learn/advanced-use/typescript#nodetype-edgetype-unions) for more information.

```tsx
const nodes = useEdges<CustomEdgeType>();
```

## Notes

- Relying on `useEdges` unecessarily can be a common cause of performance
  issues. Whenever any edge changes, this hook will cause the component to
  re-render. Often we actually care about something more specific, like when
  the _number_ of edges changes: where possible try to use
  [`useStore`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store) instead.
