sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-edges-state.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | useEdgesState
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useEdgesState.ts';

# useEdgesState

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useNodesEdgesState.ts/#L36)

This hook makes it easy to prototype a controlled flow where you manage the
state of nodes and edges outside the `ReactFlowInstance`. You can think of it
like React's `useState` hook with an additional helper callback.

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { useNodesState, useEdgesState } from 'reactflow';

const initialNodes = [];
const initialEdges = [];

export default function () {
  const [nodes, setNodes, onNodesChange] = useNodesState(initialNodes);
  const [edges, setEdges, onEdgesChange] = useEdgesState(initialEdges);

  return (
    <ReactFlow
      nodes={nodes}
      edges={edges}
      onNodesChange={onNodesChange}
      onEdgesChange={onEdgesChange}
    />
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook was created to make prototyping easier and our documentation
  examples clearer. Although it is OK to use this hook in production, in
  practice you may want to use a more sophisticated state management solution
  like [Zustand](https://reactflow.dev/docs/guides/state-management/) instead.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-edges-state.mdx, after:

---
title: useEdgesState
description:
  "This hook makes it easy to prototype a controlled flow where you manage the
  state of nodes and edges outside the `ReactFlowInstance`. You can think of it
  like React's `useState` hook with an additional helper callback."
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useEdgesState.ts';

# useEdgesState

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useNodesEdgesState.ts/#L36)

This hook makes it easy to prototype a controlled flow where you manage the
state of nodes and edges outside the `ReactFlowInstance`. You can think of it
like React's `useState` hook with an additional helper callback.

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { useNodesState, useEdgesState } from 'reactflow';

const initialNodes = [];
const initialEdges = [];

export default function () {
  const [nodes, setNodes, onNodesChange] = useNodesState(initialNodes);
  const [edges, setEdges, onEdgesChange] = useEdgesState(initialEdges);

  return (
    <ReactFlow
      nodes={nodes}
      edges={edges}
      onNodesChange={onNodesChange}
      onEdgesChange={onEdgesChange}
    />
  );
}
```

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

## Notes

- This hook was created to make prototyping easier and our documentation
  examples clearer. Although it is OK to use this hook in production, in
  practice you may want to use a more sophisticated state management solution
  like [Zustand](https://reactflow.dev/docs/guides/state-management/) instead.
