sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-store.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | useStore
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useStore.ts';

# useStore

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useStore.ts/#L13)

This hook can be used to subscribe to internal state changes of the React Flow
component. The `useStore` hook is re-exported from the [Zustand](https://github.com/pmndrs/zustand)
state management library, so you should check out their docs for more details.

<Callout type="info">
  This hook should only be used if there is no other way to access the internal
  state. For many of the common use cases, there are dedicated hooks available
  such as [`useReactFlow`](/api-reference/hooks/use-react-flow),
  [`useViewport`](/api-reference/hooks/use-viewport), etc.
</Callout>

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { useStore } from 'reactflow';

const nodesLengthSelector = (state) =>
  Array.from(state.nodeInternals.values()).length || 0;

const NodesLengthDisplay = () => {
  const nodesLength = useStore(nodesLengthSelector);

  return <div>The current number of nodes is: {nodesLength}</div>;
};

function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]}>
      <NodesLengthDisplay />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

This example computes the number of nodes eagerly. Whenever the number of nodes
in the flow changes, the `<NodesLengthDisplay />` component will re-render. This
is in contrast to the example in the [`useStoreApi`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store-api) hook that only
computes the number of nodes when a button is clicked.

Choosing whether to calculate values on-demand or to subscribe to changes as they
happen is a bit of a balancing act. On the one hand, putting too many heavy
calculations in an event handler can make your app feel sluggish or unresponsive.
On the other hand, computing values eagerly can lead to slow or unnecessary
re-renders.

We make both this hook and [`useStoreApi`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store-api) available so that you
can choose the approach that works best for your use-case.

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

### Examples

## Triggering store actions

You can manipulate the internal React Flow state by triggering internal actions
through the `useStore` hook. These actions are already used internally throughout
the library, but you can also use them to implement custom functionality.

```jsx
import { useStore } from 'reactflow';

const setMinZoomSelector = (state) => state.setMinZoom;

function MinZoomSetter() {
  const setMinZoom = useStore(setMinZoomSelector);

  return <button onClick={() => setMinZoom(6)}>set min zoom</button>;
}
```

## Notes

- You should define your store selector function _outside_ of the component that
  uses it, or use React's `useCallback` hook to memoize the function. Not doing
  this can incur a slight performance penalty.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/hooks/use-store.mdx, after:

---
title: useStore
description:
  'This hook can be used to subscribe to internal state changes of the React Flow
  component. The `useStore` hook is re-exported from the Zustand state management
  library, so you should check out their docs for more details.'
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { signature } from '@/page-data/reference/hooks/useStore.ts';

# useStore

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/hooks/useStore.ts/#L13)

This hook can be used to subscribe to internal state changes of the React Flow
component. The `useStore` hook is re-exported from the [Zustand](https://github.com/pmndrs/zustand)
state management library, so you should check out their docs for more details.

<Callout type="info">
  This hook should only be used if there is no other way to access the internal
  state. For many of the common use cases, there are dedicated hooks available
  such as [`useReactFlow`](/api-reference/hooks/use-react-flow),
  [`useViewport`](/api-reference/hooks/use-viewport), etc.
</Callout>

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { useStore } from 'reactflow';

const nodesLengthSelector = (state) =>
  Array.from(state.nodeInternals.values()).length || 0;

const NodesLengthDisplay = () => {
  const nodesLength = useStore(nodesLengthSelector);

  return <div>The current number of nodes is: {nodesLength}</div>;
};

function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]}>
      <NodesLengthDisplay />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

This example computes the number of nodes eagerly. Whenever the number of nodes
in the flow changes, the `<NodesLengthDisplay />` component will re-render. This
is in contrast to the example in the [`useStoreApi`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store-api) hook that only
computes the number of nodes when a button is clicked.

Choosing whether to calculate values on-demand or to subscribe to changes as they
happen is a bit of a balancing act. On the one hand, putting too many heavy
calculations in an event handler can make your app feel sluggish or unresponsive.
On the other hand, computing values eagerly can lead to slow or unnecessary
re-renders.

We make both this hook and [`useStoreApi`](/api-reference/hooks/use-store-api) available so that you
can choose the approach that works best for your use-case.

## Signature

<PropsTable {...signature} />

### Examples

## Triggering store actions

You can manipulate the internal React Flow state by triggering internal actions
through the `useStore` hook. These actions are already used internally throughout
the library, but you can also use them to implement custom functionality.

```jsx
import { useStore } from 'reactflow';

const setMinZoomSelector = (state) => state.setMinZoom;

function MinZoomSetter() {
  const setMinZoom = useStore(setMinZoomSelector);

  return <button onClick={() => setMinZoom(6)}>set min zoom</button>;
}
```

## Notes

- You should define your store selector function _outside_ of the component that
  uses it, or use React's `useCallback` hook to memoize the function. Not doing
  this can incur a slight performance penalty.
