sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/connection-line-component-props.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | ConnectionLineComponentProps
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { connectionLineComponentPropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/ConnectionLineComponentProps.fields.ts';

# ConnectionLineComponentProps

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L152)

If you want to render a custom component for connection lines, you can set the
`connectionLineComponent` prop on the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#connection-connectionLineComponent)
component. The `ConnectionLineComponentProps` are passed to your custom component.

```ts
export type ConnectionLineComponentProps = {
  connectionLineStyle?: React.CSSProperties;
  connectionLineType: ConnectionLineType;
  fromNode?: Node;
  fromHandle?: HandleElement;
  fromX: number;
  fromY: number;
  toX: number;
  toY: number;
  fromPosition: Position;
  toPosition: Position;
  connectionStatus: 'valid' | 'invalid' | null;
};
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...connectionLineComponentPropsFields} />

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/connection-line-component-props.mdx, after:

---
title: ConnectionLineComponentProps
description:
  'If you want to render a custom component for connection lines, you can set the
  `connectionLineComponent` prop on the `<ReactFlow />` component. The
  `ConnectionLineComponentProps` are passed to your custom component.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { connectionLineComponentPropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/ConnectionLineComponentProps.fields.ts';

# ConnectionLineComponentProps

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L152)

If you want to render a custom component for connection lines, you can set the
`connectionLineComponent` prop on the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#connection-connectionLineComponent)
component. The `ConnectionLineComponentProps` are passed to your custom component.

```ts
export type ConnectionLineComponentProps = {
  connectionLineStyle?: React.CSSProperties;
  connectionLineType: ConnectionLineType;
  fromNode?: Node;
  fromHandle?: HandleElement;
  fromX: number;
  fromY: number;
  toX: number;
  toY: number;
  fromPosition: Position;
  toPosition: Position;
  connectionStatus: 'valid' | 'invalid' | null;
};
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...connectionLineComponentPropsFields} />
