sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/default-edge-options.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | DefaultEdgeOptions\<T>
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { defaultEdgeOptionsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/DefaultEdgeOptions.fields.ts';

# DefaultEdgeOptions&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L65)

Many properties on an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) are optional. When a new edge is created,
the properties that are not provided will be filled in with the default values
passed to the `defaultEdgeOptions` prop of the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#defaultedgeoptions)
component.

```ts
export type DefaultEdgeOptions<T> = {
  type?: string;
  animated?: boolean;
  hidden?: boolean;
  deletable?: boolean;
  selectable?: boolean;
  data?: T;
  selected?: boolean;
  markerStart?: string | EdgeMarker;
  markerEnd?: string | EdgeMarker;
  zIndex?: number;
  ariaLabel?: string;
  interactionWidth?: number;
  focusable?: boolean;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...defaultEdgeOptionsFields} />

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/default-edge-options.mdx, after:

---
title: 'DefaultEdgeOptions<T>'
description:
  'Many properties on an `Edge` are optional. When a new edge is created, the
  properties that are not provided will be filled in with the default values passed
  to the `defaultEdgeOptions` prop of the `<ReactFlow />` component.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { defaultEdgeOptionsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/DefaultEdgeOptions.fields.ts';

# DefaultEdgeOptions&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L65)

Many properties on an [`Edge`](/api-reference/types/edge) are optional. When a new edge is created,
the properties that are not provided will be filled in with the default values
passed to the `defaultEdgeOptions` prop of the [`<ReactFlow />`](/api-reference/react-flow#defaultedgeoptions)
component.

```ts
export type DefaultEdgeOptions<T> = {
  type?: string;
  animated?: boolean;
  hidden?: boolean;
  deletable?: boolean;
  selectable?: boolean;
  data?: T;
  selected?: boolean;
  markerStart?: string | EdgeMarker;
  markerEnd?: string | EdgeMarker;
  zIndex?: number;
  ariaLabel?: string;
  interactionWidth?: number;
  focusable?: boolean;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...defaultEdgeOptionsFields} />
