sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/edge-props.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | EdgeProps\<T>
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgePropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/EdgeProps.ts';

# EdgeProps&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L99)

When you implement a custom edge it is wrapped in a component that enables some
basic functionality. Your custom edge component receives the following props:

```ts
export type EdgeProps<T> = {
  id: string;
  animated: boolean;
  data: T;
  style: React.CSSProperties;
  selected: boolean;
  source: string;
  target: string;
  sourceHandleId?: string | null;
  targetHandleId?: string | null;
  interactionWidth: number;
  sourceX: number;
  sourceY: number;
  targetX: number;
  targetY: number;
  sourcePosition: Position;
  targetPosition: Position;
  label?: string | React.ReactNode;
  labelStyle?: React.CSSProperties;
  labelShowBg?: boolean;
  labelBgStyle?: CSSProperties;
  labelBgPadding?: [number, number];
  labelBgBorderRadius?: number;
  markerStart?: string;
  markerEnd?: string;
  pathOptions?: any;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...edgePropsFields} />

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/edge-props.mdx, after:

---
title: 'EdgeProps<T>'
description:
  'When you implement a custom edge it is wrapped in a component that enables some
  basic functionality. Your custom edge component receives the following props:'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgePropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/EdgeProps.ts';

# EdgeProps&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L99)

When you implement a custom edge it is wrapped in a component that enables some
basic functionality. Your custom edge component receives the following props:

```ts
export type EdgeProps<T> = {
  id: string;
  animated: boolean;
  data: T;
  style: React.CSSProperties;
  selected: boolean;
  source: string;
  target: string;
  sourceHandleId?: string | null;
  targetHandleId?: string | null;
  interactionWidth: number;
  sourceX: number;
  sourceY: number;
  targetX: number;
  targetY: number;
  sourcePosition: Position;
  targetPosition: Position;
  label?: string | React.ReactNode;
  labelStyle?: React.CSSProperties;
  labelShowBg?: boolean;
  labelBgStyle?: CSSProperties;
  labelBgPadding?: [number, number];
  labelBgBorderRadius?: number;
  markerStart?: string;
  markerEnd?: string;
  pathOptions?: any;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...edgePropsFields} />
