sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/edge.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | Edge\<T>
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  defaultEdgeFields,
  smoothStepEdgeTypeFields,
  bezierEdgeTypeFields,
} from '@/page-data/reference/types/Edge.fields.ts';

# Edge&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L63)

Where a [`Connection`](/api-reference/types/connection) is the minimal description of an edge between
two nodes, an `Edge` is the complete description with everything React Flow needs
to know in order to render it.

```ts
export type Edge<T> =
  | DefaultEdge<T>
  | SmoothStepEdgeType<T>
  | BezierEdgeType<T>;
```

## Variants

### DefaultEdge&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L17)

<PropsTable {...defaultEdgeFields} />

### SmoothStepEdgeType&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L49)

The `SmoothStepEdgeType` variant has all the same fields as the `DefaultEdge`
variant, but it also has the following additional fields:

<PropsTable {...smoothStepEdgeTypeFields} />

### BezierEdgeType&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L58)

The `BezierEdgeType` variant has all the same fields as the `DefaultEdge` variant,
but it also has the following additional fields:

<PropsTable {...bezierEdgeTypeFields} />

## Default edge types

You can create any of React Flow's default edges by setting the `type` property
to one of the following values:

- `"default"`
- `"straight"`
- `"step"`
- `"smoothstep"`
- `"simplebezier"`

If you don't set the `type` property at all, React Flow will fallback to the
`"default"` bezier curve edge type.

These default edges are available even if you set the [`edgeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#edge-types)
prop to something else, unless you override any of these keys directly.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/edge.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Edge<T>'
description:
  'Where a `Connection` is the minimal description of an edge between two nodes,
  an `Edge` is the complete description with everything React Flow needs to know
  in order to render it.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  defaultEdgeFields,
  smoothStepEdgeTypeFields,
  bezierEdgeTypeFields,
} from '@/page-data/reference/types/Edge.fields.ts';

# Edge&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L63)

Where a [`Connection`](/api-reference/types/connection) is the minimal description of an edge between
two nodes, an `Edge` is the complete description with everything React Flow needs
to know in order to render it.

```ts
export type Edge<T> =
  | DefaultEdge<T>
  | SmoothStepEdgeType<T>
  | BezierEdgeType<T>;
```

## Variants

### DefaultEdge&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L17)

<PropsTable {...defaultEdgeFields} />

### SmoothStepEdgeType&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L49)

The `SmoothStepEdgeType` variant has all the same fields as the `DefaultEdge`
variant, but it also has the following additional fields:

<PropsTable {...smoothStepEdgeTypeFields} />

### BezierEdgeType&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/edges.ts/#L58)

The `BezierEdgeType` variant has all the same fields as the `DefaultEdge` variant,
but it also has the following additional fields:

<PropsTable {...bezierEdgeTypeFields} />

## Default edge types

You can create any of React Flow's default edges by setting the `type` property
to one of the following values:

- `"default"`
- `"straight"`
- `"step"`
- `"smoothstep"`
- `"simplebezier"`

If you don't set the `type` property at all, React Flow will fallback to the
`"default"` bezier curve edge type.

These default edges are available even if you set the [`edgeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#edge-types)
prop to something else, unless you override any of these keys directly.
