sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/node-props.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | NodeProps\<T>
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodePropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/NodeProps.fields.ts';

# NodeProps&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/nodes.ts/#L78)

When you implement a [custom node](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) it is
wrapped in a component that enables basic functionality like selection and
dragging. Your custom node receives the following props:

```ts
export type NodeProps<T = any> = {
  id: string;
  data: T;
  dragHandle?: boolean;
  type?: string;
  selected?: boolean;
  isConnectable?: boolean;
  zIndex?: number;
  xPos: number;
  yPos: number;
  dragging: boolean;
  targetPosition?: Position;
  sourcePosition?: Position;
};
```

## Usage

```tsx
import { NodeProps } from 'reactflow';
import { useState } from 'react';

export type CounterData = {
  initialCount?: number;
};

export default function CounterNode(props: NodeProps<CounterData>) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(props.data?.initialCount ?? 0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {count}</p>
      <button className="nodrag" onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
        Increment
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Remember to register your custom node by adding it to the
[`nodeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#nodetypes) prop of your
`<ReactFlow />` component.

```tsx
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow';
import CounterNode from './CounterNode';

const nodeTypes = {
  counterNode: CounterNode,
};

export default function App() {
  return <ReactFlow nodeTypes={nodeTypes} ... />
}
```

You can read more in our [custom node guide](/learn/customization/custom-nodes).

## Fields

<PropsTable {...nodePropsFields} />

## Notes

- If you have controls (like a slider) or other elements inside your custom node
  that **should not drag the node** you can add the class `nodrag` to those elements.
  This prevents the default drag behaviour as well as the default node selection
  behvaiour when elements with this class are clicked.

  ```tsx
  export default function CustomNode(props: NodeProps) {
    return (
      <div>
        <input className="nodrag" type="range" min={0} max={100} />
      </div>
    );
  }
  ```

- If you have scroll containers inside your custom node you can add the class
  `nowheel` to **disable the default canvas pan behaviour when scrolling** inside
  your custom nodes.

  ```tsx
  export default function CustomNode(props: NodeProps) {
    return (
      <div className="nowheel" style={{ overflow: 'auto' }}>
        <p>Scrollable content...</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
  ```

- When creating your own custom nodes, you will also need to remember to style
  them! Custom nodes have no default styles unlike the built-in nodes so you
  can use any styling method you like such as
  [styled components](/examples/styling/styled-components) or
  [tailwind](/examples/styling/tailwind).

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/node-props.mdx, after:

---
title: 'NodeProps<T>'
description:
  'When you implement a custom node it is wrapped in a component that enables
  basic functionality like selection and dragging. Your custom node receives the
  following props:'
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodePropsFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/NodeProps.fields.ts';

# NodeProps&lt;T>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/nodes.ts/#L78)

When you implement a [custom node](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) it is
wrapped in a component that enables basic functionality like selection and
dragging. Your custom node receives the following props:

```ts
export type NodeProps<T = any> = {
  id: string;
  data: T;
  dragHandle?: boolean;
  type?: string;
  selected?: boolean;
  isConnectable?: boolean;
  zIndex?: number;
  xPos: number;
  yPos: number;
  dragging: boolean;
  targetPosition?: Position;
  sourcePosition?: Position;
};
```

## Usage

```tsx
import { NodeProps } from 'reactflow';
import { useState } from 'react';

export type CounterData = {
  initialCount?: number;
};

export default function CounterNode(props: NodeProps<CounterData>) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(props.data?.initialCount ?? 0);

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Count: {count}</p>
      <button className="nodrag" onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}>
        Increment
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Remember to register your custom node by adding it to the
[`nodeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#nodetypes) prop of your
`<ReactFlow />` component.

```tsx
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow';
import CounterNode from './CounterNode';

const nodeTypes = {
  counterNode: CounterNode,
};

export default function App() {
  return <ReactFlow nodeTypes={nodeTypes} ... />
}
```

You can read more in our [custom node guide](/learn/customization/custom-nodes).

## Fields

<PropsTable {...nodePropsFields} />

## Notes

- If you have controls (like a slider) or other elements inside your custom node
  that **should not drag the node** you can add the class `nodrag` to those elements.
  This prevents the default drag behaviour as well as the default node selection
  behvaiour when elements with this class are clicked.

  ```tsx
  export default function CustomNode(props: NodeProps) {
    return (
      <div>
        <input className="nodrag" type="range" min={0} max={100} />
      </div>
    );
  }
  ```

- If you have scroll containers inside your custom node you can add the class
  `nowheel` to **disable the default canvas pan behaviour when scrolling** inside
  your custom nodes.

  ```tsx
  export default function CustomNode(props: NodeProps) {
    return (
      <div className="nowheel" style={{ overflow: 'auto' }}>
        <p>Scrollable content...</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
  ```

- When creating your own custom nodes, you will also need to remember to style
  them! Custom nodes have no default styles unlike the built-in nodes so you
  can use any styling method you like such as
  [styled components](/examples/styling/styled-components) or
  [tailwind](/examples/styling/tailwind).
