sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/node.mdx, before:

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/Node.fields.ts';

# Node&lt;T, U>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/f919cb152dd5a92ec3b4d7e4568ffe099bc2af39/packages/react/src/types/nodes.ts#L4)

The `Node` type represents everything React Flow needs to know about a given node.
Many of these properties can be manipulated both by React Flow or by you, but
some such as `width` and `height` should be considered read-only.

```ts
export type Node<T, U extends string> = {
  id: string;
  position: XYPosition;
  data: T;
  type?: U;
  sourcePosition?: Position;
  targetPosition?: Position;
  hidden?: boolean;
  selected?: boolean;
  dragging?: boolean;
  draggable?: boolean;
  selectable?: boolean;
  connectable?: boolean;
  resizing?: boolean;
  deletable?: boolean;
  dragHandle?: string;
  width?: number | null;
  height?: number | null;
  parentNode?: string;
  zIndex?: number;
  extent?: 'parent' | CoordinateExtent;
  expandParent?: boolean;
  positionAbsolute?: XYPosition;
  ariaLabel?: string;
  focusable?: boolean;
  origin?: NodeOrigin;
  style?: React.CSSProperties;
  className?: string;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...nodeFields} />

## Notes

- You shouldn't try to set the `width` or `height` of a node directly. It is
  calculated internally by React Flow and used when rendering the node in the
  viewport. To control a node's size you should use the `style` or `className`
  props to apply CSS styles instead.

Commit message:

:memo: Document the default node and edge types available.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/node.mdx, after:

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeFields } from '@/page-data/reference/types/Node.fields.ts';

# Node&lt;T, U>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/f919cb152dd5a92ec3b4d7e4568ffe099bc2af39/packages/react/src/types/nodes.ts#L4)

The `Node` type represents everything React Flow needs to know about a given node.
Many of these properties can be manipulated both by React Flow or by you, but
some such as `width` and `height` should be considered read-only.

```ts
export type Node<T, U extends string> = {
  id: string;
  position: XYPosition;
  data: T;
  type?: U;
  sourcePosition?: Position;
  targetPosition?: Position;
  hidden?: boolean;
  selected?: boolean;
  dragging?: boolean;
  draggable?: boolean;
  selectable?: boolean;
  connectable?: boolean;
  resizing?: boolean;
  deletable?: boolean;
  dragHandle?: string;
  width?: number | null;
  height?: number | null;
  parentNode?: string;
  zIndex?: number;
  extent?: 'parent' | CoordinateExtent;
  expandParent?: boolean;
  positionAbsolute?: XYPosition;
  ariaLabel?: string;
  focusable?: boolean;
  origin?: NodeOrigin;
  style?: React.CSSProperties;
  className?: string;
};
```

## Fields

<PropsTable {...nodeFields} />

## Default node types

You can create any of React Flow's default nodes by setting the `type` property
to one of the following values:

- `"default"`
- `"input"`
- `"output"`
- `"group"`

If you don't set the `type` property at all, React Flow will fallback to the
`"default"` node with both an input and output port.

These default nodes are available even if you set the [`nodeTypes`](/api-reference/react-flow#node-types)
prop to something else, unless you override any of these keys directly.

## Notes

- You shouldn't try to set the `width` or `height` of a node directly. It is
  calculated internally by React Flow and used when rendering the node in the
  viewport. To control a node's size you should use the `style` or `className`
  props to apply CSS styles instead.
