sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | ReactFlowInstance\<T, U>
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  nodesAndEdgesFields,
  intersectionFields,
  viewportFields,
} from '@/page-data/reference/types/ReactFlowInstance.fields.ts';

# ReactFlowInstance&lt;T, U>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/instance.ts/#L42)

The `ReactFlowInstance` provides a collection of methods to query and manipulate
the internal state of your flow. You can get an instance by using the
[`useReactFlow`](/api-reference/hooks/use-react-flow) hook or attaching a listener to the
[`onInit`](/api-reference/react-flow#event-oninit) event.

```ts
export type ReactFlowInstance<T, U> = {
  // Nodes and Edges
  getNode: (id: string) => Node<T> | undefined;
  getNodes: () => Node<T>[];
  addNodes: (payload: Node<T>[] | Node<T>) => void;
  setNodes: (payload: Node<T>[] | ((nodes: Node<T>[]) => Node<T>[])) => void;

  getEdge: (id: string) => Edge<U> | undefined;
  getEdges: () => Edge<U>[];
  addEdges: (payload: Edge<U>[] | Edge<U>) => void;
  setEdges: (payload: Edge<U>[] | ((edges: Edge<U>[]) => Edge<U>[])) => void;

  toObject: () => ReactFlowJsonObject<T, U>;
  deleteElements: (payload: {
    nodes?: (Partial<Node> & { id: Node['id'] })[];
    edges?: (Partial<Edge> & { id: Edge['id'] })[];
  }) => void;

  // Intersections
  getIntersectingNodes: (
    node: (Partial<Node<T>> & { id: Node['id'] }) | Rect,
    partially?: boolean,
    nodes?: Node<T>[],
  ) => Node<T>[];

  isNodeIntersecting: (
    node: (Partial<Node<T>> & { id: Node['id'] }) | Rect,
    area: Rect,
    partially?: boolean,
  ) => boolean;

  // Viewport
  viewportInitialized: boolean;
  zoomIn: (options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  zoomOut: (options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  zoomTo: (zoomLevel: number, options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  getZoom: () => number;
  setViewport: (viewport: Viewport, options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  getViewport: () => Viewport;
  fitView: (fitViewOptions?: FitViewOptions) => boolean;
  setCenter: (
    x: number,
    y: number,
    options?: { duration: number; zoom: number },
  ) => void;
  fitBounds: (
    bounds: Rect,
    options?: { duration: number; padding: number },
  ) => void;
  project: (position: { x: number; y: number }) => { x: number; y: number };
};
```

## Fields

### Nodes and edges

<PropsTable {...nodesAndEdgesFields} />

### Intersections

<PropsTable {...intersectionFields} />

### Viewport fields

<PropsTable {...viewportFields} />

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/types/react-flow-instance.mdx, after:

---
title: 'ReactFlowInstance<T, U>'
description:
  'The `ReactFlowInstance` provides a collection of methods to query and manipulate
  the internal state of your flow. You can get an instance by using the `useReactFlow`
  hook or attaching a listener to the `onInit` event.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import {
  nodesAndEdgesFields,
  intersectionFields,
  viewportFields,
} from '@/page-data/reference/types/ReactFlowInstance.fields.ts';

# ReactFlowInstance&lt;T, U>

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/types/instance.ts/#L42)

The `ReactFlowInstance` provides a collection of methods to query and manipulate
the internal state of your flow. You can get an instance by using the
[`useReactFlow`](/api-reference/hooks/use-react-flow) hook or attaching a listener to the
[`onInit`](/api-reference/react-flow#event-oninit) event.

```ts
export type ReactFlowInstance<T, U> = {
  // Nodes and Edges
  getNode: (id: string) => Node<T> | undefined;
  getNodes: () => Node<T>[];
  addNodes: (payload: Node<T>[] | Node<T>) => void;
  setNodes: (payload: Node<T>[] | ((nodes: Node<T>[]) => Node<T>[])) => void;

  getEdge: (id: string) => Edge<U> | undefined;
  getEdges: () => Edge<U>[];
  addEdges: (payload: Edge<U>[] | Edge<U>) => void;
  setEdges: (payload: Edge<U>[] | ((edges: Edge<U>[]) => Edge<U>[])) => void;

  toObject: () => ReactFlowJsonObject<T, U>;
  deleteElements: (payload: {
    nodes?: (Partial<Node> & { id: Node['id'] })[];
    edges?: (Partial<Edge> & { id: Edge['id'] })[];
  }) => void;

  // Intersections
  getIntersectingNodes: (
    node: (Partial<Node<T>> & { id: Node['id'] }) | Rect,
    partially?: boolean,
    nodes?: Node<T>[],
  ) => Node<T>[];

  isNodeIntersecting: (
    node: (Partial<Node<T>> & { id: Node['id'] }) | Rect,
    area: Rect,
    partially?: boolean,
  ) => boolean;

  // Viewport
  viewportInitialized: boolean;
  zoomIn: (options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  zoomOut: (options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  zoomTo: (zoomLevel: number, options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  getZoom: () => number;
  setViewport: (viewport: Viewport, options?: { duration: number }) => void;
  getViewport: () => Viewport;
  fitView: (fitViewOptions?: FitViewOptions) => boolean;
  setCenter: (
    x: number,
    y: number,
    options?: { duration: number; zoom: number },
  ) => void;
  fitBounds: (
    bounds: Rect,
    options?: { duration: number; padding: number },
  ) => void;
  project: (position: { x: number; y: number }) => { x: number; y: number };
};
```

## Fields

### Nodes and edges

<PropsTable {...nodesAndEdgesFields} />

### Intersections

<PropsTable {...intersectionFields} />

### Viewport fields

<PropsTable {...viewportFields} />
