sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/layouting/layouting.mdx, before:

---
sidebarTitle: Layouting Libraries
description: React Flow doesn't include any layouting algorithms out of the box. This guide surveys some of the options out there and shows you how to use them with React Flow.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Layouting

We regularly get asked how to handle layouting in React Flow. While we could build
some basic layouting into React Flow, we believe that **you know your app's
requirements best** and with so many options out there we think it's better you
choose the right tool for the job (not to mention it'd be a whole bunch of
work for us).

That doesn't help very much if you don't know what the options _are_, so this
guide is here to help! We'll split things up into resources for layouting nodes
and resources for routing edges.

To start let's put together a simple example flow that we can use as a base for
testing out the different layouting options.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-1-empty" framework="react" />

Each of the examples that follow will be built on this empty flow. Where possible
we've tried to keep the examples confined to just one `index.js` file so it's easy
for you to compare how they're set up.

## Layouting Nodes

For layouting nodes, there are a few third-party libraries that we think are worth
checking out:

| Library                                            | Dynamic node sizes | Sub-flow layouting | Edge routing | Bundle size                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Dagre](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre)          | Yes                | Yes¹               | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/@dagrejs/dagre"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/39882" title="Bundle size for @dagrejs/dagre"/></a> |
| [D3-Hierarchy](https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy) | No                 | No                 | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/d3-hierarchy"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/14697" title="Bundle size for d3-hierarchy"/></a>     |
| [D3-Force](https://github.com/d3/d3-force)         | Yes                | No                 | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/d3-force"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/15623" title="Bundle size for d3-force"/></a>             |
| [ELK](https://github.com/kieler/elkjs)             | Yes                | Yes                | Yes          | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/elkjs"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/1455420" title="Bundle size for elkjs"/></a>                 |

¹ Dagre currently has an [open issue](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/issues/238)
that prevents it from laying out sub-flows correctly if any nodes in the sub-flow
are connected to nodes outside the sub-flow.

We've loosely ordered these options from simplest to most complex, where dagre
is largely a drop-in solution and elkjs is a full-blown highly configurable
layouting engine. Below, we'll take a look at a brief example of how each of these
libraries can be used with React Flow. For dagre and elkjs specifically, we have
some separate examples you can refer back to [here](/examples/layout/dagre)
and [here](/examples/layout/elkjs).

### Dagre

- Repo: https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre
- Docs: https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/wiki#configuring-the-layout

Dagre is a simple library for layouting directed graphs. It has minimal configuration
options and a focus on speed over choosing the most optimal layout. If you need
to organize your flows into a tree, _we highly recommend dagre_.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-2-dagre" framework="react" />

With no effort at all we get a well-organized tree layout! Whenever
`getLayoutedElements` is called, we'll reset the dagre graph and set the graph's
direction (either left-to-right or top-to-bottom) based on the `direction` prop.
Dagre needs to know the dimensions of each node in order to lay them out, so we
iterate over our list of nodes and add them to dagre's internal graph.

After laying out the graph, we'll return an object with the layouted nodes and
edges. We do this by mapping over the original list of nodes and updating each
node's position according to node stored in the dagre graph.

Documentation for dagre's configuration options can be found
[here](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/wiki#configuring-the-layout), including
properties to set for spacing and alignment.

### D3-Hierarchy

- Repo: https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy
- Docs: https://d3js.org/d3-hierarchy

When you know your graph is a tree with a single root node, d3-hierarchy can
provide a handful of interesting layouting options. While the library can layout
a simple tree just fine, it also has layouting algorithms for tree maps, partition
layouts, and enclosure diagrams.

<RemoteCodeViewer
  route="learn/layouting-flow-3-d3-hierarchy"
  framework="react"
/>

<Callout>
  D3-hierarchy expects your graphs to have a single root node, so it won't work
  in all cases. It's also important to note that d3-hierarchy assigns the same
  width and height to _all_ nodes when calculating the layout, so it's not the
  best choice if you're displaying lots of different node types.
</Callout>

### D3-Force

- Repo: https://github.com/d3/d3-force
- Docs: https://d3js.org/d3-force

For something more interesting than a tree, a force-directed layout might be
the way to go. D3-Force is a physics-based layouting library that can be used to
position nodes by applying different forces to them.

As a consequence, it's a little more complicated to configure and use compared to
dagre and d3-hierarchy. Importantly, d3-force's layouting algorithm is iterative,
so we need a way to keep computing the layout across multiple renders.

First, let's see what it does:

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-4-d3-force" framework="react" />

We've changed our `getLayoutedElements` to a hook called `useLayoutedElements`
instead. Additionally, instead of passing in the nodes and edges explicitly, we'll
use get `getNodes` and `getEdges` functions from the `useReactFlow` hook. This
is important when combined with the store selector in `initialized` because it
will prevent us from reconfiguring the simulation any time the nodes update.

The simulation is configured with a number of different forces applied so you
can see how they interact: play around in your own code to see how you want to
configure those forces. You can find the documentation and some different examples
of d3-force [here](https://d3js.org/d3-force).

<Callout>
  <strong>Rectangular collisions</strong>
  D3-Force has a built-in collision force, but it assumes nodes are circles.
  We've thrown together a custom force in `collision.js` that uses a similar
  algorithm but accounts for our rectangular nodes instead. Feel free to steal
  it or let us know if you have any suggestions for improvements!
</Callout>

The tick function progresses the simulation by one step and then updates React
Flow with the new node positions. We've also included a demonstration on how to
handle node dragging while the simulation is running: if your flow isn't interactive
you can ignore that part!

<Callout>
  For larger graphs, computing the force layout every render forever is going to
  incur a big performance hit. In this example we have a simple toggle to turn
  the layouting on and off, but you might want to come up with some other
  approach to only compute the layout when necessary.
</Callout>

### Elkjs

- Repo: https://github.com/kieler/elkjs
- Docs: https://eclipse.dev/elk/reference.html (good luck!)

Elkjs is certainly the most configurable option available, but it's also the most
complicated. Elkjs is a Java library that's been ported to JavaScript, and it
provides a huge number of options for configuring the layout of your graph.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-6-elkjs" framework="react" />

At it's most basic we can compute layouts similar to dagre, but because the layouting
algorithm runs asynchronously we need to create a `useLayoutedElements` hook similar
to the one we created for d3-force.

<Callout>
  <strong>The ELK reference is your new best friend</strong>
  We don't often recommend elkjs because it's complexity makes it difficult for
  us to support folks when they need it. If you do decide to use it, you'll want
  to keep the original [Java API
  reference](https://eclipse.dev/elk/reference.html) handy.
</Callout>

We've also included a few examples of some of the other layouting algorithms
available, including a non-interactive force layout.

### Honourable Mentions

Of course, we can't go through every layouting library out there: we'd never work
on anything else! Here are some other libraries we've come across that might be
worth taking a look at:

- If you want to use dagre or d3-hierarchy but need to support nodes with different
  dimensions, both [d3-flextree](https://github.com/klortho/d3-flextree) and
  [entitree-flex](https://github.com/codeledge/entitree-flex) look promising.

  You can find an example of how to use entitree-flex with React Flow
  [here](/examples/layout/entitree-flex).

- [Cola.js](https://github.com/tgdwyer/WebCola) looks like a promising option for
  so-called "constraint-based" layouts. We haven't had time to properly investigate
  it yet, but it looks like you can achieve results similar to d3-force but with
  a lot more control.

## Routing Edges

If you don't have any requirements for edge routing, you can use one of the
layouting libraries above to position nodes and let the edges fall wherever they
may. Otherwise, you'll want to look into some libraries and techniques for edge
routing.

Your options here are more limited than for node layouting, but here are some
resources we thought looked promising:

- [react-flow-smart-edge](https://github.com/tisoap/react-flow-smart-edge)
- [Routing Orthogonal Diagram Connectors in JavaScript](https://medium.com/swlh/routing-orthogonal-diagram-connectors-in-javascript-191dc2c5ff70)

If you do explore some custom edge routing options, consider contributing back to
the community by writing a blog post or creating a library!

Our [editable edge Pro Example](/examples/edges/editable-edge) could also be used
as a starting point for implementing a custom edge that can be routed along a
specific path.

Commit message:

add playground link to learn/layouting

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/layouting/layouting.mdx, after:

---
sidebarTitle: Layouting Libraries
description: React Flow doesn't include any layouting algorithms out of the box. This guide surveys some of the options out there and shows you how to use them with React Flow.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { RemoteCodeViewer } from 'xy-shared/server';

# Layouting

We regularly get asked how to handle layouting in React Flow. While we could build
some basic layouting into React Flow, we believe that **you know your app's
requirements best** and with so many options out there we think it's better you
choose the right tool for the job (not to mention it'd be a whole bunch of
work for us).

That doesn't help very much if you don't know what the options _are_, so this
guide is here to help! We'll split things up into resources for layouting nodes
and resources for routing edges.

You can test out some of the layouting options in our [playground](/playground/layouting) or have a look at the
[examples](/examples#layout) we've put together.

To start let's put together a simple example flow that we can use as a base for
testing out the different layouting options.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-1-empty" framework="react" />

Each of the examples that follow will be built on this empty flow. Where possible
we've tried to keep the examples confined to just one `index.js` file so it's easy
for you to compare how they're set up.

## Layouting Nodes

For layouting nodes, there are a few third-party libraries that we think are worth
checking out:

| Library                                            | Dynamic node sizes | Sub-flow layouting | Edge routing | Bundle size                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Dagre](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre)          | Yes                | Yes¹               | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/@dagrejs/dagre"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/39882" title="Bundle size for @dagrejs/dagre"/></a> |
| [D3-Hierarchy](https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy) | No                 | No                 | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/d3-hierarchy"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/14697" title="Bundle size for d3-hierarchy"/></a>     |
| [D3-Force](https://github.com/d3/d3-force)         | Yes                | No                 | No           | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/d3-force"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/15623" title="Bundle size for d3-force"/></a>             |
| [ELK](https://github.com/kieler/elkjs)             | Yes                | Yes                | Yes          | <a href="https://pkg-size.dev/elkjs"><img src="https://pkg-size.dev/badge/bundle/1455420" title="Bundle size for elkjs"/></a>                 |

¹ Dagre currently has an [open issue](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/issues/238)
that prevents it from laying out sub-flows correctly if any nodes in the sub-flow
are connected to nodes outside the sub-flow.

We've loosely ordered these options from simplest to most complex, where dagre
is largely a drop-in solution and elkjs is a full-blown highly configurable
layouting engine. Below, we'll take a look at a brief example of how each of these
libraries can be used with React Flow. For dagre and elkjs specifically, we have
some separate examples you can refer back to [here](/examples/layout/dagre)
and [here](/examples/layout/elkjs).

### Dagre

- Repo: https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre
- Docs: https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/wiki#configuring-the-layout

Dagre is a simple library for layouting directed graphs. It has minimal configuration
options and a focus on speed over choosing the most optimal layout. If you need
to organize your flows into a tree, _we highly recommend dagre_.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-2-dagre" framework="react" />

With no effort at all we get a well-organized tree layout! Whenever
`getLayoutedElements` is called, we'll reset the dagre graph and set the graph's
direction (either left-to-right or top-to-bottom) based on the `direction` prop.
Dagre needs to know the dimensions of each node in order to lay them out, so we
iterate over our list of nodes and add them to dagre's internal graph.

After laying out the graph, we'll return an object with the layouted nodes and
edges. We do this by mapping over the original list of nodes and updating each
node's position according to node stored in the dagre graph.

Documentation for dagre's configuration options can be found
[here](https://github.com/dagrejs/dagre/wiki#configuring-the-layout), including
properties to set for spacing and alignment.

### D3-Hierarchy

- Repo: https://github.com/d3/d3-hierarchy
- Docs: https://d3js.org/d3-hierarchy

When you know your graph is a tree with a single root node, d3-hierarchy can
provide a handful of interesting layouting options. While the library can layout
a simple tree just fine, it also has layouting algorithms for tree maps, partition
layouts, and enclosure diagrams.

<RemoteCodeViewer
  route="learn/layouting-flow-3-d3-hierarchy"
  framework="react"
/>

<Callout>
  D3-hierarchy expects your graphs to have a single root node, so it won't work
  in all cases. It's also important to note that d3-hierarchy assigns the same
  width and height to _all_ nodes when calculating the layout, so it's not the
  best choice if you're displaying lots of different node types.
</Callout>

### D3-Force

- Repo: https://github.com/d3/d3-force
- Docs: https://d3js.org/d3-force

For something more interesting than a tree, a force-directed layout might be
the way to go. D3-Force is a physics-based layouting library that can be used to
position nodes by applying different forces to them.

As a consequence, it's a little more complicated to configure and use compared to
dagre and d3-hierarchy. Importantly, d3-force's layouting algorithm is iterative,
so we need a way to keep computing the layout across multiple renders.

First, let's see what it does:

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-4-d3-force" framework="react" />

We've changed our `getLayoutedElements` to a hook called `useLayoutedElements`
instead. Additionally, instead of passing in the nodes and edges explicitly, we'll
use get `getNodes` and `getEdges` functions from the `useReactFlow` hook. This
is important when combined with the store selector in `initialized` because it
will prevent us from reconfiguring the simulation any time the nodes update.

The simulation is configured with a number of different forces applied so you
can see how they interact: play around in your own code to see how you want to
configure those forces. You can find the documentation and some different examples
of d3-force [here](https://d3js.org/d3-force).

<Callout>
  <strong>Rectangular collisions</strong>
  D3-Force has a built-in collision force, but it assumes nodes are circles.
  We've thrown together a custom force in `collision.js` that uses a similar
  algorithm but accounts for our rectangular nodes instead. Feel free to steal
  it or let us know if you have any suggestions for improvements!
</Callout>

The tick function progresses the simulation by one step and then updates React
Flow with the new node positions. We've also included a demonstration on how to
handle node dragging while the simulation is running: if your flow isn't interactive
you can ignore that part!

<Callout>
  For larger graphs, computing the force layout every render forever is going to
  incur a big performance hit. In this example we have a simple toggle to turn
  the layouting on and off, but you might want to come up with some other
  approach to only compute the layout when necessary.
</Callout>

### Elkjs

- Repo: https://github.com/kieler/elkjs
- Docs: https://eclipse.dev/elk/reference.html (good luck!)

Elkjs is certainly the most configurable option available, but it's also the most
complicated. Elkjs is a Java library that's been ported to JavaScript, and it
provides a huge number of options for configuring the layout of your graph.

<RemoteCodeViewer route="learn/layouting-flow-6-elkjs" framework="react" />

At it's most basic we can compute layouts similar to dagre, but because the layouting
algorithm runs asynchronously we need to create a `useLayoutedElements` hook similar
to the one we created for d3-force.

<Callout>
  <strong>The ELK reference is your new best friend</strong>
  We don't often recommend elkjs because it's complexity makes it difficult for
  us to support folks when they need it. If you do decide to use it, you'll want
  to keep the original [Java API
  reference](https://eclipse.dev/elk/reference.html) handy.
</Callout>

We've also included a few examples of some of the other layouting algorithms
available, including a non-interactive force layout.

### Honourable Mentions

Of course, we can't go through every layouting library out there: we'd never work
on anything else! Here are some other libraries we've come across that might be
worth taking a look at:

- If you want to use dagre or d3-hierarchy but need to support nodes with different
  dimensions, both [d3-flextree](https://github.com/klortho/d3-flextree) and
  [entitree-flex](https://github.com/codeledge/entitree-flex) look promising.

  You can find an example of how to use entitree-flex with React Flow
  [here](/examples/layout/entitree-flex).

- [Cola.js](https://github.com/tgdwyer/WebCola) looks like a promising option for
  so-called "constraint-based" layouts. We haven't had time to properly investigate
  it yet, but it looks like you can achieve results similar to d3-force but with
  a lot more control.

## Routing Edges

If you don't have any requirements for edge routing, you can use one of the
layouting libraries above to position nodes and let the edges fall wherever they
may. Otherwise, you'll want to look into some libraries and techniques for edge
routing.

Your options here are more limited than for node layouting, but here are some
resources we thought looked promising:

- [react-flow-smart-edge](https://github.com/tisoap/react-flow-smart-edge)
- [Routing Orthogonal Diagram Connectors in JavaScript](https://medium.com/swlh/routing-orthogonal-diagram-connectors-in-javascript-191dc2c5ff70)

If you do explore some custom edge routing options, consider contributing back to
the community by writing a blog post or creating a library!

Our [editable edge Pro Example](/examples/edges/editable-edge) could also be used
as a starting point for implementing a custom edge that can be routed along a
specific path.
