sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/background.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <Background />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { backgroundProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Background.ts';

# &lt;Background />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/background/src/Background.tsx/#L23)

The `<Background />` component makes it convenient to render different types of
backgrounds common in node-based UIs. It comes with three variants: `lines`,
`dots` and `cross`.

```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import ReactFlow, { Background } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow defaultNodes={[...]} defaultEdges={[...]}>
      <Background color="#ccc" variant="dots" />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...backgroundProps} />

## Examples

### Combining multiple backgrounds

It is possible to layer multiple `<Background />` components on top of one another
to create something more interesting. The following example shows how to render a
square grid accented every 10th line.

```tsx
import ReactFlow, { Background, BackgroundVariant } from 'reactflow';

import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow defaultNodes={[...]} defaultEdges={[...]}>
      <Background
        id="1"
        gap={10}
        color="#f1f1f1"
        variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines}
      />

      <Background
        id="2"
        gap={100}
        color="#ccc"
        variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines}
      />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Notes

- When combining multiple `<Background />` components it's important to give each
  of them a unique `id` prop!

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/background.mdx, after:

---
title: <Background />
description:
  'The `<Background />` component makes it convenient to render different types of
  backgrounds common in node-based UIs. It comes with three variants: `lines`,
  `dots` and `cross`.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { backgroundProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Background.ts';

# &lt;Background />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/background/src/Background.tsx/#L23)

The `<Background />` component makes it convenient to render different types of
backgrounds common in node-based UIs. It comes with three variants: `lines`,
`dots` and `cross`.

```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';
import ReactFlow, { Background } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow defaultNodes={[...]} defaultEdges={[...]}>
      <Background color="#ccc" variant="dots" />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...backgroundProps} />

## Examples

### Combining multiple backgrounds

It is possible to layer multiple `<Background />` components on top of one another
to create something more interesting. The following example shows how to render a
square grid accented every 10th line.

```tsx
import ReactFlow, { Background, BackgroundVariant } from 'reactflow';

import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow defaultNodes={[...]} defaultEdges={[...]}>
      <Background
        id="1"
        gap={10}
        color="#f1f1f1"
        variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines}
      />

      <Background
        id="2"
        gap={100}
        color="#ccc"
        variant={BackgroundVariant.Lines}
      />
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Notes

- When combining multiple `<Background />` components it's important to give each
  of them a unique `id` prop!
