sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/base-edge.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <BaseEdge />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { baseEdgeProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/BaseEdge.ts';

# &lt;BaseEdge />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/BaseEdge.tsx/#L7)

The `<BaseEdge />` component gets used internally for all the edges. It can be
used inside a custom edge and handles the invisible helper edge and the edge label
for you.

```jsx
import { BaseEdge } from 'reactflow';

export function CustomEdge({ sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY, ...props }) {
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return <BaseEdge path={edgePath} {...props} />;
}
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...baseEdgeProps} />

## Notes

- If you want to use an edge marker with the [`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component,
  you can pass the `markerStart` or `markerEnd` props passed to your custom edge
  through to the [`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component. You can see all the props
  passed to a custom edge by looking at the [`EdgeProps`](/api-reference/types/edge-props) type.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/base-edge.mdx, after:

---
title: <BaseEdge />
description:
  'The `<BaseEdge />` component gets used internally for all the edges. It can be
  used inside a custom edge and handles the invisible helper edge and the edge label
  for you.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { baseEdgeProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/BaseEdge.ts';

# &lt;BaseEdge />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/BaseEdge.tsx/#L7)

The `<BaseEdge />` component gets used internally for all the edges. It can be
used inside a custom edge and handles the invisible helper edge and the edge label
for you.

```jsx
import { BaseEdge } from 'reactflow';

export function CustomEdge({ sourceX, sourceY, targetX, targetY, ...props }) {
  const [edgePath] = getStraightPath({
    sourceX,
    sourceY,
    targetX,
    targetY,
  });

  return <BaseEdge path={edgePath} {...props} />;
}
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...baseEdgeProps} />

## Notes

- If you want to use an edge marker with the [`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component,
  you can pass the `markerStart` or `markerEnd` props passed to your custom edge
  through to the [`<BaseEdge />`](/api-reference/components/base-edge) component. You can see all the props
  passed to a custom edge by looking at the [`EdgeProps`](/api-reference/types/edge-props) type.
