sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/controls.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <Controls />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { controlsProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Controls.ts';

# &lt;Controls />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/controls/src/Controls.tsx/#L21)

The `<Controls />` component renders a small panel that contain convenient
buttons to zoom in, zoom out, fit the view, and lock the viewport.

```tsx
import ReactFlow, { Controls } from 'reactflow'

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]} edges={[...]}>
      <Controls />
    </ReactFlow>
  )
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Controls />` component is exported
as `ControlsProps`.

<PropsTable {...controlsProps} />

Additionally, the `<Controls />` component accepts any prop valid on a `<div />`
element.

## Notes

- To extend or customise the controls, you can use the [`<ControlButton />`](/api-reference/components/control-button)
  component

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/controls.mdx, after:

---
title: <Controls />
description:
  'The `<Controls />` component renders a small panel that contain convenient
  buttons to zoom in, zoom out, fit the view, and lock the viewport.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { controlsProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Controls.ts';

# &lt;Controls />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/controls/src/Controls.tsx/#L21)

The `<Controls />` component renders a small panel that contain convenient
buttons to zoom in, zoom out, fit the view, and lock the viewport.

```tsx
import ReactFlow, { Controls } from 'reactflow'

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]} edges={[...]}>
      <Controls />
    </ReactFlow>
  )
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Controls />` component is exported
as `ControlsProps`.

<PropsTable {...controlsProps} />

Additionally, the `<Controls />` component accepts any prop valid on a `<div />`
element.

## Notes

- To extend or customise the controls, you can use the [`<ControlButton />`](/api-reference/components/control-button)
  component
