sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/edge-text.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <EdgeText />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgeTextProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/EdgeText.ts';

# &lt;EdgeText />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/EdgeText.tsx/#L7)

You can use the `<EdgeText />` as a helper component to display text within your
custom edges.

```jsx
import { EdgeText } from 'reactflow';

export function CustomEdgeLabel({ label }) {
  return (
    <EdgeText
      x={100}
      y={100}
      label={label}
      labelStyle={{ fill: 'white' }}
      labelShowBg
      labelBgStyle={{ fill: 'red' }}
      labelBgPadding={[2, 4]}
      labelBgBorderRadius={2}
    />
  );
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<EdgeText />` component is exported
as `EdgeTextProps`.

<PropsTable {...edgeTextProps} />

Additionally, you may also pass any standard React HTML attributes such as `onClick`,
`className` and so on.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/edge-text.mdx, after:

---
title: <EdgeText />
description:
  'You can use the `<EdgeText />` as a helper component to display text within your
  custom edges.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgeTextProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/EdgeText.ts';

# &lt;EdgeText />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Edges/EdgeText.tsx/#L7)

You can use the `<EdgeText />` as a helper component to display text within your
custom edges.

```jsx
import { EdgeText } from 'reactflow';

export function CustomEdgeLabel({ label }) {
  return (
    <EdgeText
      x={100}
      y={100}
      label={label}
      labelStyle={{ fill: 'white' }}
      labelShowBg
      labelBgStyle={{ fill: 'red' }}
      labelBgPadding={[2, 4]}
      labelBgBorderRadius={2}
    />
  );
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<EdgeText />` component is exported
as `EdgeTextProps`.

<PropsTable {...edgeTextProps} />

Additionally, you may also pass any standard React HTML attributes such as `onClick`,
`className` and so on.
