sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/edge-label-renderer.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <EdgeLabelRenderer />
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgeLabelRendererProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/EdgeLabelRenderer.ts';

# &lt;EdgeLabelRenderer />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/EdgeLabelRenderer/index.tsx/#L9)

Edges are SVG-based. If you want to render more complex labels you can use the
`<EdgeLabelRenderer />` component to access a div based renderer. This component
is a portal that renders the label in a `<div />` that is positioned on top of
the edges. You can see an example usage of the component in the [edge label renderer](/examples/edges/edge-label-renderer)
example.

<Callout type="info">
  The `<EdgeLabelRenderer />` component is available in `reactflow` version
  **11.2** or higher.
</Callout>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { getBezierPath, EdgeLabelRenderer, BaseEdge } from 'reactflow';

const CustomEdge = ({ id, data, ...props }) => {
  const [edgePath, labelX, labelY] = getBezierPath(props);

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
      <EdgeLabelRenderer>
        <div
          style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            transform: `translate(-50%, -50%) translate(${labelX}px,${labelY}px)`,
            background: '#ffcc00',
            padding: 10,
            borderRadius: 5,
            fontSize: 12,
            fontWeight: 700,
          }}
          className="nodrag nopan"
        >
          {data.label}
        </div>
      </EdgeLabelRenderer>
    </>
  );
};

export default CustomEdge;
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...edgeLabelRendererProps} />

## Notes

- The `<EdgeLabelRenderer />` has no pointer events by default. If you want to
  add mouse interactions you need to set the style `pointerEvents: all` and add
  the `nopan` class on the label or the element you want to interact with.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/edge-label-renderer.mdx, after:

---
title: <EdgeLabelRenderer />
description:
  'Edges are SVG-based. If you want to render more complex labels you can use the
  `<EdgeLabelRenderer />` component to access a div based renderer. This component
  is a portal that renders the label in a `<div />` that is positioned on top of
  the edges. You can see an example usage of the component in the edge label renderer
  example.'
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { edgeLabelRendererProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/EdgeLabelRenderer.ts';

# &lt;EdgeLabelRenderer />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/EdgeLabelRenderer/index.tsx/#L9)

Edges are SVG-based. If you want to render more complex labels you can use the
`<EdgeLabelRenderer />` component to access a div based renderer. This component
is a portal that renders the label in a `<div />` that is positioned on top of
the edges. You can see an example usage of the component in the [edge label renderer](/examples/edges/edge-label-renderer)
example.

<Callout type="info">
  The `<EdgeLabelRenderer />` component is available in `reactflow` version
  **11.2** or higher.
</Callout>

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { getBezierPath, EdgeLabelRenderer, BaseEdge } from 'reactflow';

const CustomEdge = ({ id, data, ...props }) => {
  const [edgePath, labelX, labelY] = getBezierPath(props);

  return (
    <>
      <BaseEdge id={id} path={edgePath} />
      <EdgeLabelRenderer>
        <div
          style={{
            position: 'absolute',
            transform: `translate(-50%, -50%) translate(${labelX}px,${labelY}px)`,
            background: '#ffcc00',
            padding: 10,
            borderRadius: 5,
            fontSize: 12,
            fontWeight: 700,
          }}
          className="nodrag nopan"
        >
          {data.label}
        </div>
      </EdgeLabelRenderer>
    </>
  );
};

export default CustomEdge;
```

## Props

<PropsTable {...edgeLabelRendererProps} />

## Notes

- The `<EdgeLabelRenderer />` has no pointer events by default. If you want to
  add mouse interactions you need to set the style `pointerEvents: all` and add
  the `nopan` class on the label or the element you want to interact with.
