sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/handle.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <Handle />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { handleProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Handle.ts';

# &lt;Handle />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Handle/index.tsx/#L47)

The `<Handle />` component is used in your [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes)
to define connection points.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from 'reactflow';

export CustomNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <div style={{ padding: '10px 20px' }}>
        {data.label}
      </div>

      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Handle />` component is exported
as `HandleProps`.

<PropsTable {...handleProps} />

## Examples

### Custom handle with validation

You can create your own custom handles by wrapping the `<Handle />` component.
This example shows a custom handle that only allows connections when the
connection source matches a given id.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from 'reactflow';

export const TargetHandleWithValidation = ({ position, source }) => (
  <Handle
    type="target"
    position={position}
    isValidConnection={(connection) => connection.source === source}
    onConnect={(params) => console.log('handle onConnect', params)}
    style={{ background: '#fff' }}
  />
);
```

### Style handles when connecting

The handle receives the additional class names `connecting` when the connection
line is above the handle and `valid` if the connection is valid. You can find an
example which uses these classes [here](/examples/interaction/validation).

### Multiple handles

If you need multiple source or target handles you can achieve this by creating a
custom node. Normally you just use the id of a node for the `source` or `target`
of an edge. If you have multiple source or target handles you need to pass an id
to these handles. These ids can be used by an edge with the `sourceHandle` and
`targetHandle` options, so that you can connect a specific handle. If you have a
node with an id = `1` and a handle with an id = `a` you can connect this handle
by using the node `source=1` and the `sourceHandle=a`.

### Dynamic handles

If you are programmatically changing the position or number of handles in your
custom node, you need to update the node internals with the
[`useUpdateNodeInternals`](/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals/) hook.

You can find an example of how to implement a custom node with multiple handles
in the [custom node guide](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) or in the
[custom node example](/examples/nodes/custom-node).

### Custom handle styles

Since the handle is a div, you can use CSS to style it or pass a style prop to
customize a Handle. You can see this in the
[Add Node On Edge Drop](/examples/nodes/add-node-on-edge-drop) and
[Simple Floating Edges](/examples/edges/simple-floating-edges) examples.

## Notes

- If you need to hide a handle for some reason, you must use `visibility: hidden`
  or `opacity: 0` instead of `display: none`. This is important because React
  Flow needs to calculate the dimensions of the handle to work properly and using
  `display: none` will report a width and height of 0!

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/handle.mdx, after:

---
title: <Handle />
description:
  'The `<Handle />` component is used in your custom nodes to define connection
  points.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { handleProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Handle.ts';

# &lt;Handle />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Handle/index.tsx/#L47)

The `<Handle />` component is used in your [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes)
to define connection points.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from 'reactflow';

export CustomNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <div style={{ padding: '10px 20px' }}>
        {data.label}
      </div>

      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Handle />` component is exported
as `HandleProps`.

<PropsTable {...handleProps} />

## Examples

### Custom handle with validation

You can create your own custom handles by wrapping the `<Handle />` component.
This example shows a custom handle that only allows connections when the
connection source matches a given id.

```jsx
import { Handle, Position } from 'reactflow';

export const TargetHandleWithValidation = ({ position, source }) => (
  <Handle
    type="target"
    position={position}
    isValidConnection={(connection) => connection.source === source}
    onConnect={(params) => console.log('handle onConnect', params)}
    style={{ background: '#fff' }}
  />
);
```

### Style handles when connecting

The handle receives the additional class names `connecting` when the connection
line is above the handle and `valid` if the connection is valid. You can find an
example which uses these classes [here](/examples/interaction/validation).

### Multiple handles

If you need multiple source or target handles you can achieve this by creating a
custom node. Normally you just use the id of a node for the `source` or `target`
of an edge. If you have multiple source or target handles you need to pass an id
to these handles. These ids can be used by an edge with the `sourceHandle` and
`targetHandle` options, so that you can connect a specific handle. If you have a
node with an id = `1` and a handle with an id = `a` you can connect this handle
by using the node `source=1` and the `sourceHandle=a`.

### Dynamic handles

If you are programmatically changing the position or number of handles in your
custom node, you need to update the node internals with the
[`useUpdateNodeInternals`](/api-reference/hooks/use-update-node-internals/) hook.

You can find an example of how to implement a custom node with multiple handles
in the [custom node guide](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) or in the
[custom node example](/examples/nodes/custom-node).

### Custom handle styles

Since the handle is a div, you can use CSS to style it or pass a style prop to
customize a Handle. You can see this in the
[Add Node On Edge Drop](/examples/nodes/add-node-on-edge-drop) and
[Simple Floating Edges](/examples/edges/simple-floating-edges) examples.

## Notes

- If you need to hide a handle for some reason, you must use `visibility: hidden`
  or `opacity: 0` instead of `display: none`. This is important because React
  Flow needs to calculate the dimensions of the handle to work properly and using
  `display: none` will report a width and height of 0!
