sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/node-toolbar.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <NodeToolbar />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeToolbarProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/NodeToolbar.ts';

# &lt;NodeToolbar />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/node-toolbar/src/NodeToolbar.tsx/#L79)

This component can render a toolbar or tooltip to one side of a custom node. This
toolbar doesn't scale with the viewport so that the content is always visible.

```jsx
import { memo } from 'react';
import { Handle, Position, NodeToolbar } from 'reactflow';

export CustomNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <NodeToolbar isVisible={data.toolbarVisible} position={data.toolbarPosition}>
        <button>delete</button>
        <button>copy</button>
        <button>expand</button>
      </NodeToolbar>

      <div style={{ padding: '10px 20px' }}>
        {data.label}
      </div>

      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};

export default memo(CustomNode);
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<NodeToolbar />` component is exported
as `NodeToolbarProps`.

<PropsTable {...nodeToolbarProps} />

## Notes

- By default, the toolbar is only visible when a node is selected. If multiple
  nodes are selected it will not be visible to prevent overlapping toolbars or
  clutter. You can override this behavior by setting the `isVisible` prop to
  `true`.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/node-toolbar.mdx, after:

---
title: <NodeToolbar />
description:
  "This component can render a toolbar or tooltip to one side of a custom node. This
  toolbar doesn't scale with the viewport so that the content is always visible."
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeToolbarProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/NodeToolbar.ts';

# &lt;NodeToolbar />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/node-toolbar/src/NodeToolbar.tsx/#L79)

This component can render a toolbar or tooltip to one side of a custom node. This
toolbar doesn't scale with the viewport so that the content is always visible.

```jsx
import { memo } from 'react';
import { Handle, Position, NodeToolbar } from 'reactflow';

export CustomNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <NodeToolbar isVisible={data.toolbarVisible} position={data.toolbarPosition}>
        <button>delete</button>
        <button>copy</button>
        <button>expand</button>
      </NodeToolbar>

      <div style={{ padding: '10px 20px' }}>
        {data.label}
      </div>

      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};

export default memo(CustomNode);
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<NodeToolbar />` component is exported
as `NodeToolbarProps`.

<PropsTable {...nodeToolbarProps} />

## Notes

- By default, the toolbar is only visible when a node is selected. If multiple
  nodes are selected it will not be visible to prevent overlapping toolbars or
  clutter. You can override this behavior by setting the `isVisible` prop to
  `true`.
