sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/node-resizer.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <NodeResizer />
---

import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeResizerProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/NodeResizer.ts';

# &lt;NodeResizer />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/node-resizer/src/NodeResizer.tsx/#L9)

The `<NodeResizer />` component can be used to add a resize functionality to your
nodes. It renders draggable controls around the node to resize in all directions.

```jsx
import { memo } from 'react';
import { Handle, Position, NodeResizer } from 'reactflow';

const ResizableNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <NodeResizer minWidth={100} minHeight={30} />
      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <div style={{ padding: 10 }}>{data.label}</div>
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};

export default memo(ResizableNode);
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<NodeResizer />` component is exported
as `NodeResizerProps`.

<PropsTable {...nodeResizerProps} />

## Examples

### Default Behavior

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="api-flows/NodeResizer"
  additionalFiles={[
    'ResizableNode.js',
    'ResizableNodeSelected.js',
    'CustomResizerNode.js',
  ]}
  showEditor={false}
  applyStyles={false}
  options={{ editorHeight: 400, editorWidthPercentage: 45, wrapContent: true }}
/>

### Custom Resize Controls

To build custom resize controls, you can use the [NodeResizeControl](/api-reference/components/node-resize-control) component and customize it.

## Notes

- Take a look at the docs for the [`NodeProps`](/api-reference/types/node-props) type or the
  guide on [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) to see how to
  implement your own nodes.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/node-resizer.mdx, after:

---
title: <NodeResizer />
description:
  'The `<NodeResizer />` component can be used to add a resize functionality to your
  nodes. It renders draggable controls around the node to resize in all directions.'
---

import ExampleViewer from '@/components/example-viewer';
import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { nodeResizerProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/NodeResizer.ts';

# &lt;NodeResizer />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/node-resizer/src/NodeResizer.tsx/#L9)

The `<NodeResizer />` component can be used to add a resize functionality to your
nodes. It renders draggable controls around the node to resize in all directions.

```jsx
import { memo } from 'react';
import { Handle, Position, NodeResizer } from 'reactflow';

const ResizableNode = ({ data }) => {
  return (
    <>
      <NodeResizer minWidth={100} minHeight={30} />
      <Handle type="target" position={Position.Left} />
      <div style={{ padding: 10 }}>{data.label}</div>
      <Handle type="source" position={Position.Right} />
    </>
  );
};

export default memo(ResizableNode);
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<NodeResizer />` component is exported
as `NodeResizerProps`.

<PropsTable {...nodeResizerProps} />

## Examples

### Default Behavior

<ExampleViewer
  codePath="api-flows/NodeResizer"
  additionalFiles={[
    'ResizableNode.js',
    'ResizableNodeSelected.js',
    'CustomResizerNode.js',
  ]}
  showEditor={false}
  applyStyles={false}
  options={{ editorHeight: 400, editorWidthPercentage: 45, wrapContent: true }}
/>

### Custom Resize Controls

To build custom resize controls, you can use the [NodeResizeControl](/api-reference/components/node-resize-control) component and customize it.

## Notes

- Take a look at the docs for the [`NodeProps`](/api-reference/types/node-props) type or the
  guide on [custom nodes](/learn/customization/custom-nodes) to see how to
  implement your own nodes.
