sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/panel.mdx, before:

---
title: Api Reference | <Panel />
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { panelProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Panel.ts';

# &lt;Panel />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Panel/index.tsx/#L14)

The `<Panel />` component helps you position content above the viewport. It is
used internally by the [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) and [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls)
components.

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { Background, Panel } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]} fitView>
      <Panel position="top-left">top-left</Panel>
      <Panel position="top-center">top-center</Panel>
      <Panel position="top-right">top-right</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-left">bottom-left</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-center">bottom-center</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-right">bottom-right</Panel>
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Panel />` component is exported
as `PanelProps`.

<PropsTable {...panelProps} />

Additionally, the `<Panel />` component accepts all props of the HTML `<div />`
element.

Commit message:

:sparkles: Generate summary pages for each api reference category.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/api-reference/components/panel.mdx, after:

---
title: <Panel />
description:
  'The `<Panel />` component helps you position content above the viewport. It is
  used internally by the `<MiniMap />` and `<Controls />` components.'
---

import { PropsTable } from '@/components/props-table';
import { panelProps } from '@/page-data/reference/components/Panel.ts';

# &lt;Panel />

[Source on GitHub](https://github.com/wbkd/react-flow/blob/bacaa99c73b347856f63c5d495f5a0829be1e431/packages/core/src/components/Panel/index.tsx/#L14)

The `<Panel />` component helps you position content above the viewport. It is
used internally by the [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) and [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls)
components.

```jsx
import ReactFlow, { Background, Panel } from 'reactflow';

export default function Flow() {
  return (
    <ReactFlow nodes={[...]} fitView>
      <Panel position="top-left">top-left</Panel>
      <Panel position="top-center">top-center</Panel>
      <Panel position="top-right">top-right</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-left">bottom-left</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-center">bottom-center</Panel>
      <Panel position="bottom-right">bottom-right</Panel>
    </ReactFlow>
  );
}
```

## Props

For TypeScript users, the props type for the `<Panel />` component is exported
as `PanelProps`.

<PropsTable {...panelProps} />

Additionally, the `<Panel />` component accepts all props of the HTML `<div />`
element.
