sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/learn/getting-started/installation-and-requirements.mdx, before:

---
title: Installation and Requirements
description: You can install React Flow using npm, pnpm, or yarn.
---

# Installation and Requirements

For this set-up we assume you already have node.js and npm, yarn or pnpm already installed.
The React Flow package is published under [`reactflow`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reactflow) on npm and installable via:

import { Tab, Tabs } from 'nextra/components';

<Tabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn']}>
<Tab>

```bash copy
npm install reactflow
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab >

```bash copy
pnpm add reactflow
```

  </Tab>
    <Tab>

```bash copy
yarn add reactflow
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Now you can import the React Flow component and the styles in your application:

```js
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow';
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
```

## Prior Experience Needed

React Flow is a React library. That means React developers will feel comfortable using it. If basic React terms and concepts like states, props, components, and hooks are unfamiliar to you, you might need to learn more about React before being able to use React Flow fully. If you’ve never used React before, we recommend first getting to start on React through tutorials like [Codecademy](https://www.notion.so/John-s-Guide-to-React-Flow-b7a435289bed481f8c73f9a4e112b8d6) or [Reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html).

Commit message:

:memo: Add link to our vite template in installation guide.

sites/reactflow.dev/src/pages/learn/getting-started/installation-and-requirements.mdx, after:

---
title: Installation and Requirements
description: You can install React Flow using npm, pnpm, or yarn.
---

# Installation and Requirements

For this set-up we assume you already have node.js and npm, yarn or pnpm already
installed. The React Flow package is published under
[`reactflow`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reactflow) on npm and installable via:

import { Tab, Tabs } from 'nextra/components';

<Tabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn']}>
<Tab>

```bash copy
npm install reactflow
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab >

```bash copy
pnpm add reactflow
```

  </Tab>
    <Tab>

```bash copy
yarn add reactflow
```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Now you can import the React Flow component and the styles in your application:

```js
import ReactFlow from 'reactflow';
import 'reactflow/dist/style.css';
```

## Hit the ground running

To get folks building quickly, we have a template repository on GitHub that uses
Vite and TypeScript – we use this set up for all our own React Flow work! You can
find the template [here](https://github.com/xyflow/vite-react-flow-template).

To use it, you can either create a new repository from the template, or use `degit`
to grab the template's files without the git history:

```bash
npx degit xyflow/vite-react-flow-template your-app-name
```

## Prior Experience Needed

React Flow is a React library. That means React developers will feel comfortable
using it. If basic React terms and concepts like states, props, components, and
hooks are unfamiliar to you, you might need to learn more about React before being
able to use React Flow fully. If you’ve never used React before, we recommend
first getting to start on React through tutorials like
[Codecademy](https://www.notion.so/John-s-Guide-to-React-Flow-b7a435289bed481f8c73f9a4e112b8d6)
or [Reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html).
