sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/concepts/introduction.mdx, before:

---
description: React Flow is a library for building node-based applications from static diagrams to complex editors. It comes with built-in plugins like a mini map and graph controls, and nodes and edges are highly customizable.
---

import { Emoji } from '@xyflow/xy-ui';

# Introduction

React Flow is a library for building node-based applications. These can be anything
from simple static diagrams to data visualizations to complex visual editors. You
can implement custom node types and edges and it comes with components like a
minimap and viewport controls out of the box.

If you're looking to get started quickly check out the [quickstart guide](/learn),
otherwise, let's take a look at React Flow's key features.

## Key Features

**<Emoji content="👌" /> Easy to use**: React Flow already comes with many of the features you want out of the box. Dragging
nodes around, zooming and panning, selecting multiple nodes and edges, and
adding/removing edges are all built-in.

**<Emoji content="🎨" /> Customizable**: React Flow supports custom node types and edge types. Because custom nodes are just
React components, you can implement anything you need: you're not locked into
the built-in node types. Custom edges let you add labels, controls, and bespoke
logic to node edges.

**<Emoji content="⚡️" /> Fast rendering**: React Flow only renders nodes that have changed, and makes sure only those that
are in the viewport are displayed at all.

**<Emoji content="🧩" /> Built-in plugins**: We ship React Flow with a few plugins out of the box:

- The [`<Background />`](/api-reference/components/background) plugin implements some basic customizable background patterns.
- The [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) plugin displays a small version of the graph in the corner of the screen.
- The [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls) plugin adds controls to zoom, center, and lock the viewport.
- The [`<Panel />`](/api-reference/components/panel) plugin makes it easy to position content on top of the viewport.
- The [`<NodeToolbar />`](/api-reference/components/node-toolbar) plugin lets you render a toolbar attached to a node.
- The [`<NodeResizer />`](/api-reference/components/node-resizer) plugin makes it easy to add resize functionality to your nodes.

**<Emoji content="💪" /> Reliable:** React Flow is entirely written in TypeScript to catch bugs early and make fixes
easy. For everything else, we have a robust cypress test suite so you can depend
on React Flow with confidence.

## Moving on

Now that you have a better idea of what React Flow is all about, the next page
will walk through some common terminology that you will see repeated throughout
the documentation: nodes, edges, and handles.

Commit message:

chore: update learn page text

sites/reactflow.dev/src/content/learn/concepts/introduction.mdx, after:

---
description: React Flow is a library for building node-based applications from static diagrams to complex editors. It comes with built-in plugins like a mini map and graph controls, and nodes and edges are highly customizable.
---

import { Emoji } from '@xyflow/xy-ui';

# Introduction

React Flow is a library for building node-based applications. Whether you're creating simple static diagrams, immersive data visualizations, or complex visual editors, React Flow offers extensive customizability for your nodes and edges, and it comes with handly built-in components to get you quickly up and running.

## Key Features

**<Emoji content="👌" /> Easy to use**: React Flow comes with many of the features you want out of the box. Dragging
nodes around, zooming and panning, selecting multiple nodes and edges, and
adding/removing edges are all built-in.

**<Emoji content="🎨" /> Customizable**: React Flow supports custom node types and edge types. Because custom nodes are just
React components, you can implement anything you need: you're not locked into
the built-in node types. Custom edges let you add labels, controls, and bespoke
logic to node edges.

**<Emoji content="⚡️" /> Fast rendering**: React Flow only renders nodes that have changed, and makes sure only those that
are in the viewport are displayed at all.

**<Emoji content="🧩" /> Built-in plugins**: We ship React Flow with a few plugins out of the box:

- The [`<Background />`](/api-reference/components/background) plugin implements some basic customizable background patterns.
- The [`<MiniMap />`](/api-reference/components/minimap) plugin displays a small version of the graph in the corner of the screen.
- The [`<Controls />`](/api-reference/components/controls) plugin adds controls to zoom, center, and lock the viewport.
- The [`<Panel />`](/api-reference/components/panel) plugin makes it easy to position content on top of the viewport.
- The [`<NodeToolbar />`](/api-reference/components/node-toolbar) plugin lets you render a toolbar attached to a node.
- The [`<NodeResizer />`](/api-reference/components/node-resizer) plugin makes it easy to add resize functionality to your nodes.

**<Emoji content="💪" /> Reliable:** React Flow is entirely written in TypeScript to catch bugs early and make fixes
easy. For everything else, we have a robust cypress test suite so you can depend
on React Flow with confidence.
